Health Sciences Certification

GMP for Sport Audit Guide 



Section 1. Facility Information

Question #

Question Details

1

Facilities audited during the visit and description of operations (include address, # of employees, size, production schedule, general layout, and any additional pertinent details):

2

Facility Type:



Types of operations:

Manufacturing 

Contract Manufacturing 

Packaging



3

People present at the Opening Meeting (Name & Position):

4

People present at the Closing Meeting (Name & Position):



Section 2. GMP Registration Policy Requirements



This section relates to documentation of compliance with general scheme requirements established in NSF GMP Registration Policies for Dietary Supplement, Dietary Ingredient, Functional Food, Cosmetic and Over-The-Counter-Cosmetic Facilities. Refer to the document for full requirements of each question.



Question #

Question Details

PP-5

Facility has current GMP Registration/Certification to an applicable Standard/Guideline.



Facility must hold valid current GMP or food safety certification applicable to the type of product they are manufacturing or packaging: Examples may include: 

GFSI food safety standards, 

Accredited ISO 22716,

Accredited NSF/ANSI 455 Certification, or 

NSF Supplier Assurance Food Manufacturing Standard

GP-15

Prompt and thorough access shall be granted to the auditor during the NSF audit.



Facility must provide access for NSF to perform audits at all facilities included in the scope. Refused or delayed access may result in withdrawal of Certification and other appropriate actions by NSF.

GP-19

Audit Execution (onsite or virtual):



NSF may elect to suspend travel by its representatives to a specific geographical location or region as the result of official travel warnings, advisories, or other health and safety concerns including, but not limited to, civil unrest, personal security, and risk of communicable disease.

	If NSF, at its sole discretion, determines that alternate measures may be used in place of an onsite audit, NSF shall notify the Company of the alternate measures necessary order to proceed with Certification during the period in which audits are not possible.

GP-26

Documents requested during the NSF audit shall be provided in a timely manner.



The facility must maintain at the site, or have immediate access to, and made available upon request, records of the purchase of ingredients, materials, and components used in the production or assembly of products, production records, shipment records, inventory records and any other records as required by GMP for Sport requirements. 

GP-29

The Company's use of the NSF Mark on advertising, packaging, and literature are appropriate.



Use of the NSF Mark on sales literature, technical publications, promotions, materials, packaging, catalogs, websites and in any format including electronic means, and in advertising of certified products must comply with NSF requirements.

The NSF GMP for Sport registration mark, NSF company name and/or NSF corporate logo may not be used in conjunction with product-specific advertising or on:

Materials

Ingredients

Certificate of analysis

Components

Finished products, labels or packaging



Additional Reference: 

GMP Registration Co-Marketing Tools & Guidelines



Section 3. NSF GMP for Sport Requirements



This section relates to documentation of compliance with Section 6.2 (GMP for Sport Registration) of NSF 306 Guideline for Certified for Sport. 

6.2.1

Manufacturer shall not have any Banned/Prohibited Substances in the facility. This includes manufacturing, receiving or warehousing.



Facility shall not receive, warehouse, manufacture, distribute, hold, or purchase Banned/Prohibited Substances included in the lists from organizations MLB, NFL, WADA, and in Annex C of NSF 306 Guideline. 

6.2.2

Manufacturer shall ensure that references to NSF 306 Annex C, NFL/NFLPA, MLB, and WADA Banned/Prohibited Substances lists are incorporated as part of their applicable operating procedures and prohibit any Banned Substance/Prohibited Substance referenced therein from entering the facility.



Procedures and controls shall be established to prevent the Banned/Prohibited Substances from being brought into the facility.

Procedures shall include references to the banned/prohibited substances lists from MLB, NFL, WADA, and in Annex C of NSF 306 Guideline.

6.2.3.1

Manufacturer shall have documented procedures to review the Banned/Prohibited Substance lists for changes annually at minimum. 



The lists of banned/prohibited substances from Annex C of NSF 306 Guideline, NFL, MLB, WADA shall be reviewed at least annually to verify if there are any changes. 

Procedures shall be updated as applicable whenever there are changes to the Banned/Prohibited Substances lists.

NSF shall be notified of any changes in practices and procedures that impact the manufacturer’s ability to comply with any of the NSF 306 Guideline requirements.

6.2.3.2

Manufacturer shall have procedures to ensure all materials purchased are not on the Banned/Prohibited Substances lists.



Materials purchased shall not be on the Banned/Prohibited Substances lists.



