
--- page 1 ---

NSF Nutrition & Wellness Program
Certification Policies
NSF/ANSI 455
September 2, 2025
NSF Confidential

--- page 2 ---

Since 1944, NSF International
(NSF) has stood at the forefront
of global efforts to improve
human and planet health.
As an independent, internationally recognized
organization, we play a pivotal role in the
development of robust public health standards.
NSF engages in the rigorous testing, auditing,
and certification of an array of products and
services. The NSF mark serves as an emblem
of assurance, signifying to consumers, retailers,
and regulatory bodies that our certified
products meet or exceed requisite standards.
These policies are subject to revision.
Contact NSF to confirm this revision is current.
Users of these policies may request clarifications and
interpretations, or propose revisions by contacting:
NSF Nutrition & Wellness
789 North Dixboro Road, PO Box 130140
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140 USA
Phone: (734) 769-8010 Email: info@nsf.org
Web: < nsf.org >

--- page 3 ---

NSF Certification Policies –
NSF/ANSI 455
Policies Developer
NSF
i

--- page 4 ---

Prepared by the
NSF Nutrition & Wellness Program
Adopted
August 2019
Revisions
August 2021 GP April 2022 GP PP November 2022 GP
July 2025 PP September 2025 PP
Note . PP = Program specific policies, GP = General policies
Published by
NSF, PO Box 130140, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140, USA
For inquiries regarding these policies, please reference the designation: “NSF Certification Polices for
NSF/ANSI 455 .ˮ
Copyright 2025 NSF International
Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any
means without permission in writing from NSF.
Printed in the United States of America.
ii

--- page 5 ---

Foreword
This edition of the policies contains the following revisions, effective September 2, 2025:
PP – 28 NSF Product Certification audit was removed due to duplication.
PP – 30 Suspension or withdrawal of Certification was updated to correct a spelling error.
The following revisions were made to the Program Policies and are effective July 18, 2025:
Definitions already included in NSF/ANSI 455 Standards were removed.
PP - 1 Program Eligibility was added with language from old PP - 7 NSF/ANSI 455 Certification Categories and
Site Types.
PP – 2 Application (OLD PP – 1 Program admittance and compliance) was revised to update language and
clarify content.
PP – 5 Required Pre work was removed, as it is covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 7 Certification Scope and Exclusion (OLD PP – 7 NSF/ANSI 455 Certification Categories and Site Types)
was revised to update language and add exclusion.
PP – 8 NSF/ANSI 455 - Out of Scope was included in the updated PP – 7.
PP – 10 NSF/ANSI 455 Audit Types was removed, as it is covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 13 Scope of Audits was included in the updated PP – 7.
PP – 8 Modifications to the Certification scope was added.
PP – 9 Audit duration (old PP – 18) was revised to update language.
PP – 10 Auditor assignment (old PP – 12 Audit execution) was revised to update language and remove content
covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 11 Scheduling responsibility (old PP – 19 Audit scheduling) was revised to update language.
PP – 12 campus location or multi-facility sites (old PP – 14 Site and campus audits) was revised to update
language and remove language covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 15 Audit exclusions was included in the updated PP – 7.
PP – 16 Pre-audit requirements was removed, as it is covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 17 Company required audit documented prior to audit was included in the updated PP – 13 and language
was removed that is already covered in NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 13 Audit readiness (old PP – 20) was revised to update language.
PP – 14 Certification audit, PP – 15 Audit completion and PP – 16 Audit report technical review were added to
document current process.
iii

--- page 6 ---

PP – 21 Onsite audit activities, PP – 22 Assessing nonconformances, PP – 23 Audit report grading, PP – 24
Audit grade and frequency, and PP – 25 Reaudit circumstances were removed, as these are addressed in
NSF/ANSI 455.
PP – 17 Corrective actions (old PP – 33 Corrective action response requirements) was revised to update
language.
PP – 18 Disputes and Appeals was added to document current process.
PP – 20 Public listing of certified facilities (old PP – 31) was revised to update language.
PP – 21 Use of NSF GMP Certification Mark (old PP – 32 Correct use of the NSF Certification Mark) was revised
to update language.
PP – 22 Access for audits was added to document current process.
PP 23 – Unannounced audits (old PP – 27) was revised to update language and removed language regarding
fees.
PP – 24 Postponed or cancelled audits (old PP – 28) was revised to update language.
PP – 25 Outstanding payments was added to document current process.
PP – 26 Coordination of other audits performed by NSF (old PP – 11 Other audit types performed by NSF to
other guidelines or standards) was revised to updated language.
PP – 27 GMP for Sport Registration (old PP- 9) was revised to update language.
PP – 28 NSF Product Certification Audit was added from language in old PP – 12 Audit Execution.
OLD PP – 29 Quality control records was removed as these are audit requirements in NSF/ANSI 455. PP – 29
GRMA GMP Certification was added.
OLD PP – 30 Obtaining and maintain NSF Certification was removed as this is covered in NSF/ANSI 455. NEW
PP – 30 Suspension or Withdrawal of Certification (old PP – 37) was revised to update language.
PP – 31 Reinstatement was added to document current process.
PP – 34 Corrective Action – late submissions, PP – 35 Corrective action response requirements and PP – 36
Repeat corrective actions were removed, as these are addressed in NSF/ANSI 455 or other program policies.
Suggestions for improvement of this policy are welcome. Comments should be sent to standards@nsf.org , or
c/o NSF, Standards Department, PO Box 130140, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140, USA.
iv

--- page 7 ---

Table of contents
Section I. General Policies for All Products 1
Introduction 1
Definitions 1
Authorization for NSF Certification 2
GP – 1 Eligibility 2
GP – 2 Application 2
GP – 3 Contract 2
GP – 4 Notification of Certification and authorization for use of the Mark 2
GP – 5 Transfer of authorization for Certification and use of the Mark 3
GP – 6 NSF acknowledgment of Certified Products 3
GP – 7 Use of the Mark for products shown in the Official Listing 3
GP – 8 Trade designations 3
GP – 9 Use of the Mark at authorized Locations 4
GP – 10 NSF brand 4
GP – 11 Product modification 4
GP – 12 Implementation of revisions to Standards or Policies 4
GP – 13 Private Labeling of Certified Products 4
Audit 5
GP – 14 Requirement and purpose of audits 5
GP – 15 Access for audits 5
GP – 16 Cooperation with NSF 5
GP – 17 Sample collection 6
GP – 18 Corrective action report 6
GP – 19 Audit suspension due to travel restrictions 6
GP – 20 Non-operational Locations 6
Testing 7
GP – 21 Conduct of testing 7
GP – 22 Test report 7
GP – 23 Periodic testing of Certified Products 7
GP – 24 Disposition of test samples 7
Records 7
GP – 25 Records of Certified Product information 7
GP – 26 Company records 7
GP – 27 Company complaint records 8
Confidentiality 8
GP – 28 Confidentiality 8
Advertising 8
GP – 29 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by Certified Companies: Advertising, packaging, and
literature 8
GP – 30 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by parties other than the Certified Company:
Advertising and literature 9
Investigation of complaints 9
GP – 31 Complaints 9
GP – 32 Investigation of complaints: Sample selection and handling 10
Corrective action and enforcement 10
v

--- page 8 ---

GP – 33 Corrective action for general Noncompliance 10
GP – 34 Noncompliant test results for initial qualification 10
GP – 35 Noncompliant test results for Certified Products 11
GP – 36 Noncompliant retest results for Certified Products 11
GP – 37 Use of the Mark on a non-certified product 11
GP – 38 Unauthorized change to a Certified Product 12
GP – 39 Unauthorized shipment or disposal of Certified or non-certified products placed on hold 12
GP – 40 Bribes offered to NSF 12
GP – 41 Withdrawal of Certification 12
GP – 42 Public Notice 13
GP – 43 Reinstatement 13
Appeals 13
GP – 44 Appeal of a decision, result or action taken by NSF 13
GP – 45 Legal action 14
Fees 14
GP – 46 Application fee 14
GP – 47. Standards maintenance fee 14
GP – 48 Certification fee 14
GP – 49 Collection fee 14
vi

--- page 9 ---

Section II. Program Specific Policies for GMP Certification for NSF/ANSI 455
Introduction 15
Definitions 15
Program participation & compliance 16
PP – 1 Program eligibility 16
PP – 2 Application 16
PP – 3 Legal and regulatory compliance 17
PP – 4 Agreement with applicable standards 17
PP – 5 Shared audit information with other parties 17
PP – 6 Sharing of audit information 17
Certification 17
PP – 7 Certification scope and exclusion 17
PP – 8 Modifications to the Certification scope 18
PP – 9 Audit duration 18
PP – 10 Auditor assignment 18
PP – 11 Scheduling responsibility 18
PP – 12 Campus Location or multi-facility sites 18
PP – 13 Audit readiness 19
PP – 14 Certification audit 19
PP – 15 Audit completion 19
PP – 16 Audit report technical review 19
PP – 17 Corrective actions 20
PP – 18 Disputes and appeals 20
PP – 19 Notification of Certification 21
PP – 20 Public Listing of Certified Facilities 21
PP – 21 Use of the NSF GMP Certification Mark 21
Special policies 22
PP – 22 Unannounced audits 22
PP – 23 Postponed or cancelled audits 22
PP – 24 Outstanding payments 22
Other audit services 23
PP – 25 Coordination of other audits performed by NSF 23
PP – 26 GMP for Sport Registration 23
PP – 27 NSF Product Certification audit 23
PP – 28 GRMA GMP Certification 24
Enforcement 24
PP – 29 Suspension or Withdrawal of Certification 24
PP – 30 Reinstatement 25
Annex A Certification Mark options and usage guidelines A1
Annex Z Certification Agreement Z1
vii

--- page 10 ---

This page is intentionally left blank.

--- page 11 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Section I. General Policies for All Products
Introduction
NSF offers Certification of products to any Company, subject to the requirements of the general and program-
specific policies and any annexes attached hereto, including but not limited to Annex Z .
The general policies (Section I) apply to all products being Certified against any Standard, within the scope of
an NSF Certification program. There are additional program-specific policies (Section II) that further define
requirements under each NSF Certification program. The general and program specific policies shall be
considered in their entirety and shall be applied within the context of the standard referenced in the Contract.
For clarity and ease of reference, these policies are presented as individually numbered items with appropriate
headings.
In the event of a conflict, the general policies take precedence over program policies.
Definitions
Certified Product : Product authorized by NSF for Certification and use of the Mark.
Certification : NSF determination that adequate confidence is achieved that a duly identified product is in
conformity with all applicable NSF r equirements. For Verification schemes, replace the word “Certificationˮ
with “Verificationˮ and for “Registrationˮ schemes, replace the word “Certificationˮ with “Registrationˮ
Note . The terms “listingˮ or “listedˮ or “certifiedˮ are synonymous with certification.
Certification Services : Any work that NSF performs as part of the process for applying, achieving or
continuing Certification.
Company : The entity executing the contract to seek Certification Services.
Compliance : Conformance with all NSF Requirement(s).
Contract : The authorized written agreement with NSF for Certification Services.
Corrective action/preventive action (CAPA) : An investigation into any noncompliance to expected or desired
outcome that identifies the underlying root cause or reason the noncompliance happened, determines
corrective action to restore compliance and preventive action to ensure the noncompliance does not recur.
Distributor : The distributor is responsible for issuing catalogues and handling sales functions for the brand.
The distributor has direct interaction with the retailer or purchasing customer.
Location : Any point of final production or assembly. Multiple locations that can be audited in one audit day
(eight hours) may be considered one location.
Mark : An NSF trademark designated for the applicable Certification programs and used to represent
Certification.
New Product : Products manufactured, assembled, added or implemented after the date of Certification.
Noncompliance : Lack of conformance with any NSF Requirement.
NSF : NSF International or its subsidiaries and affiliates.
NSF Requirements : Requirements of the relevant Standards, scheme, or program including but not limited to
1

--- page 12 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
the general and program specific policies, requirement documents and any agreements or contracts upon
which NSFʼs Certification are based. In all instances where this term is used, it is understood this means the
requirements that are appropriate and applicable to the specific Product.
Private Labeling : Manufacture of a product by one company for sale under another companyʼs brand.
Product : Any good, equipment, component, system, service, material, location, compound, or ingredient
covered by a Standard for which NSF offers Certification, including those made on the behalf of another
manufacturer or those distributed by companies other than the manufacturer.
Public Notice : Distribution of a written notice of non-compliance.
Standard : The document that is the basis for the Certification. This document may be an NSF Standard or
protocol, an NSF/ANSI Standard, another voluntary standard, an NSF criteria or other criteria, a government
regulation, or other specifications.
Subcontract Laboratory (SCL) : A laboratory that has been evaluated and contracted by NSF to perform testing
for NSF in accordance with NSF Requirements and procedures.
Authorization for NSF Certification
GP – 1 Eligibility
A company with Products covered by a Standard for which NSF offers Certification is eligible to seek
Certification from NSF.
GP – 2 Application
Application materials provided by NSF shall be completed by the Company for each physical address where
Certification Services are requested.
GP – 3 Contract
A contract shall be in place with the legal entity receiving Certification. A Companyʼs subsidiaries and/ or
affiliates may not utilize the Companyʼs Contract unless bound by the Contract and approved by NSF. NSF may
require separate Contracts. If a Company seeks Certification of Product(s) under more than one NSF
Certification program, NSF may require separate Contracts for each program.
In addition to the Contract, the Company shall abide by the terms of the NSF Requirements and any annex,
appendix, schedule, etc. attached hereto and as such, are incorporated herein by reference.
GP – 4 Notification of Certification and authorization for use of the Mark
The Company shall be advised in writing of the Certification, and the Certification may be made public by NSF
or as otherwise specified by the NSF Requirements. If applicable, upon receipt of notification, the Company is
authorized to use the Mark in connection with Certified Product(s) as outlined in these Policies and the NSF
Requirements. The Company may be required to enter into a separate license agreement with a third party,
such as a scheme owner, for use of the applicable Mark.
The Company may not use the Mark in any way until receipt of written authorization from NSF. Unauthorized
use of the Mark is prohibited. In the event that NSF determines that a Product is not in compliance with NSF
Requirements, use of the Mark is not authorized. NSF may withdraw authorization to use the Mark at any time.
2

--- page 13 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
The Company agrees that the Mark, NSF logo and NSF name (“NSF IPˮ) are the sole property of NSF and
nothing in these Policies or the Contract transfer any ownership of the NSF IP to the Company. The Company
further represents and warrants that the Company shall not (1) register or attempt to register any NSF IP or
anything which encompasses or incorporates the NSF IP, (2) claim or otherwise represent that the Company
has any right, title or interest in the NSF IP, (3) give permission for any third party to use the NSF IP unless
otherwise permitted in writing by NSF, or (4) do anything that is prejudicial to the interest of NSF in or to the
NSF IP.
GP – 5 Transfer of authorization for Certification and use of the Mark
Upon request and with documentation of continued compliance with all applicable NSF Requirements, NSF, in
its sole discretion, may approve the transfer of the Contract and respective Certification of specific Products to
another Company for the purpose of a name change, change of ownership, or change of a location provided
that the transfer is permitted by the Standard and the Company, and the new Company execute all required
documents from NSF.
GP – 6 NSF acknowledgment of Certified Products
Certified Products shall bear the Mark or be otherwise represented as Certified as described in the program
specific policies. For physical Certified Products that do not bear the Mark (e.g. not a system, service, or
location), a statement shall be included in the Official Listing indicating how the Product will be represented as
being Certified.
When a Certified Product is sold with any non-certified product, the Company shall clearly indicate in a
manner visible at minimum at the point of sale, that the non-Certified product has not been evaluated to the
respective Standard. NSF reserves full discretion in determining acceptability of the delineation between
Certified Product and non-certified product.
GP – 7 Use of the Mark for products shown in the Official Listing
The Company shall represent as Certified only Products that are in compliance with all applicable NSF
Requirements. Products may not be represented as Certified until the trade designation or model designation
appears in the Companyʼs Official NSF Listing.
Certification shall only be represented as specifically authorized by NSF. The NSF Product marking, and
advertising shall not directly or indirectly represent, imply, or claim an NSF Certification for an end use
application for which it is not Certified by NSF.
Failure to abide by the NSF Requirements in relation to usage of the Mark and claims may result in
enforcement action including, but not limited to, withdrawal of Certification, and Public Notice.
GP – 8 Trade designations
A Company shall not use the letters “NSFˮ in its trade designation or unique identifier (e.g. name, model
number, or other identification assigned by the Company) for a Certified or non-Certified Product, unless prior
written authorization from NSF allows otherwise.
A Company shall not have a trade designation for a Certified Product that directly or indirectly states or implies
an end use application for which the Product is not Certified.
NSF shall review any trade designation that references all or a portion of the designation of a Standard (e.g.
“51ˮ for NSF 51, “C900ˮ or “AWWA C900ˮ for AWWA C900), or official regulation (e.g. the Codex Alimentarius)
3

--- page 14 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
before use by the Company. NSF in its sole discretion shall determine whether the use of any trade
designation reference is authorized. NSF may include information about the scope of the NSF Certification to
any Standards or regulations referenced in a tra de designation in the Productʼs Official Listing.
GP – 9 Use of the Mark at authorized Locations
The Mark shall be placed on Products only at Locations authorized by NSF, unless prior written authorization
from NSF permits placement at another location.
GP – 10 NSF brand
NSFʼs iconic blue circle serves as the logo and visual representation of the NSF brand. The NSF brand
represents NSF as an organization and is used by NSF to advertise and promote services and certifications.
The NSF brand shall not be used in the form of a Certification Mark or to promote Certification unless
permitted by NSF Policies.
GP – 11 Product modification
The Company shall notify and request authorization from NSF in writing prior to any changes of a Certified
Product where such changes are related to any NSF Requirement. The change shall be reviewed by NSF and
NSF will advise the Company of any required evaluation or testing. The Company shall not make such changes
to a Certified Product without prior written acceptance by NSF.
GP – 12 Implementation of revisions to Standards or Policies
Upon adoption of a revision to an NSF Requirement that is applicable for Certification, NSF shall publish an
effective date of implementation. All Certified Products shall be verified as complying with the requirements of
the revised NSF Requirement on or before the effective date of implementation.
Except as provided below, Products submitted for Certification after the date of adoption of a revision to an
NSF Requirement and prior to the date of implementation may be evaluated and tested to the previous version
of the NSF Requirement. However, full compliance with the revision shall be verified prior to the date of
implementation. When a revision to an NSF Requirement addresses an identified public health issue, new or
modified products submitted for Certification after the date of adoption and prior to the date of implementation
of the revised NSF Requirement shall be in full compliance with the revised NSF Requirement upon
qualification.
GP – 13 Private Labeling of Certified Products
If authorized by NSF, the Company may label Certified Products with a name and trade designation, other than
the Companyʼs, under one of the following provisions:
• Marking for the privately labeled Product shall include the name and trade designation of the company
for whom the private labeling is occurring and shall also prominently identify the original Company as
4

--- page 15 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
the manufacturer of the product. The original Companyʼs name and address (or a unique company
identifier approved by NSF); and listed trade designation shall be included on the label or data plate,
and in all advertising materials including on all web pages and point of sale packaging. This information
is required in close proximity to each Mark or Certification claim, and in font size equivalent or larger
than that of the privately labeled name and trade designation; or
• t he original Companyʼs Official Listing shall include the name and trade designation of the company for
whom the private labeling is occurring, or
• the original Company shall private label the Product with no modifications as “another name f orˮ on
behalf of the private label company. A separate Listing shall be issued by NSF in the name of the
private label company, which is supported by the original Companyʼs Certified Product.
The Company shall be subject to additional fees and/or terms and conditions with regard to authorized private
labeling.
Audit
GP – 14 Requirement and purpose of audits
Except where otherwise provided for by these General Policies and Program Specific policies, an audit of all
relevant facilities of the Company shall be required before Certification is authorized, and one or more
unannounced audits may be conducted each calendar year. However, NSF reserves the right to conduct
announced or unannounced audits as needed to monitor for compliance with all NSF Requirements. If NSF, at
its sole discretion, determines that alternate measures may be used in place of an onsite audit, NSF shall notify
the Company of the alternate measures necessary.
At the election of NSF, subcontract auditors may be used in lieu of NSF staff auditors.
GP – 15 Access for audits
Access to facilities and Locations, of both the Company and the Companyʼs subcontractors (where applicable)
for NSF audits shall be granted promptly by the Company. NSF shall make every attempt to accommodate
facility vacations, inventory shutdowns and other non-productive periods or facility closings where NSF has
been notified in advance. NSF shall be granted access to all facilities and locations of the Company, except
where precluded from doing so by restrictions included in agreements between the Company and NSF or by
government regulations, and where NSF has been notified in advance and is satisfied as to the validity of
these restrictions. When necessary due to travel restrictions, NSF may contact the Company to confirm any
onsite restrictions prior to arranging either an unannounced or announced audit. If unannounced, details of the
time or date of the audit will not be disclosed. Refused or delayed access may result in withdrawal of
Certification and other appropriate actions by NSF including but not limited to, issuing a Public Notice.
GP – 16 Cooperation with NSF
The Company shall provide any assistance required by NSF.
While in a Company's facility, NSF representatives shall comply with all applicable health and safety laws. The
Company shall provide authorized Company personnel to accompany NSF representatives while in the
Companyʼs facility. The Company shall notify NS F in advance of any health and safety equipment necessary
for access to the Companyʼs facility or shall provide the necessary health and safety equipment for the NSF
representativeʼs use during the audit, along with instructions for proper use.
NSF representatives may discontinue an audit at any time where their health and safety may be at risk, if they
5

--- page 16 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
are subject to harassment or discrimination, if they feel threatened or subject to abusive behavior, or the
conduct of the Company staff hampers the completion of a valid audit. NSF representatives may also
discontinue an audit in the presence of an individual who they believe may, intentionally or otherwise,
influence its outcome in an inappropriate manner. An NSF representative shall immediately notify the Company
and NSF if an audit is to be discontinued.
GP – 17 Sample collection
The Company shall provide samples of the Product and/or raw material for testing and retesting when and as
required by the NSF Requirements. The samples shall be provided to NSF without charge and shipped
immediately to NSF prepaid by the Company. NSF at its sole discretion may determine the appropriate method
for obtaining a sample, including but not limited to obtaining a sample from the marketplace, at the Companyʼs
expense. It is acknowledged that samples collected outside the United States may experience delays in
customs and transit.
GP – 18 Corrective action report
NSF shall provide the Company with a report detailing all non-conformances noted during the audit.
GP – 19 Audit suspension due to travel restrictions
NSF may elect to suspend travel by its representatives to a specific geographical location or region as the
result of official travel warnings, advisories, or other health and safety concerns including, but not limited to,
civil unrest, personal security, and risk of communicable disease.
If suspension of travel prevents audits from being conducted, NSF shall notify the Company that travel has
been suspended. Where an audit is mandatory for Certification, the Certification for the Location will be denied
or withdrawn until audits can be resumed.
If NSF, at its sole discretion, determines that alternate measures may be used in place of an onsite audit, NSF
shall notify the Company of the alternate measures necessary in order to proceed with Certification during the
period in which audits are not possible.
A Companyʼs failure to comply with the alternate measures directed by NSF may result in the withdrawal or
denial of Certification.
If the audit is conducted by the terms of this policy in place of an on-site audit and the travel suspension
cannot be lifted after a one (1) year period for an initial audit or a two (2) year period for a surveillance audit,
Certification for the Location may be continued for another length of time if approved by program management
and authorized by the scheme and accreditation body. Otherwise, the Location shall be withdrawn from
Certification.
GP – 20 Non-operational Locations
In the event that a Location becomes non-operational due to a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, the
Company may request that the public Listing be maintained for a maximum period of 12 months while the
Location is repaired, or work is undertaken to transfer production to another suitable location. During this
period, audits and annual monitoring requirements of the NSF Certification program may be suspended. NSF
may require an on-site audit of the rebuilt or the alternate location before production of the Certified Product
can begin. In event that the Company elects not to transfer production or to re-build the facility, the Listing
shall be discontinued immediately.
6

--- page 17 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
The Company shall document to NSFʼs satisfaction that a Location has been sufficiently damaged to prevent
further production until repairs are completed and shall provide NSF with a time frame for transfer or re-
construction of the Location.
Testing
GP – 21 Conduct of testing
At NSFʼs sole discretion, testing may be conducted at NSF, a subcontract laboratory, the Companyʼs Location,
or another site, as acceptable to NSF.
GP – 22 Test report
Upon completion of testing, NSF shall provide the test results to the Company. When a subcontract laboratory
is used, for proprietary reasons NSF reserves the right not to identify the subcontract laboratory in the test
report but shall provide this information to the Company if requested.
GP – 23 Periodic testing of Certified Products
Periodic testing of Certified Products may be required by NSF to maintain Certification.
GP – 24 Disposition of test samples
NSF reserves the right to retain any Product and/or raw material samples in its discretion. All samples not
returned to the Company based on the Companyʼs direction in the sample collection form shall be disposed of
by NSF in its discretion.
Records
GP – 25 Records of Certified Product information
NSF may require a Company to submit information to document that a Product (or family of Products) fully
conforms with all applicable requirements for Certification. Product information may be stored in a
documentation report or other acceptable format. If required, the documentation report shall be reviewed,
approved, and maintained by NSF.
Each Location shall have access to a copy of the documentation report, and it shall be made available for use
during audits by NSF. The documentation report shall not be copied or distributed by the Company without
prior written authorization from NSF.
GP – 26 Company records
The Company shall maintain at the Location, or have immediate access to, records of the purchase of
ingredients, materials, and components used in the production or assembly of all Certified Products,
production records, shipment records, inventory records and any other records as required by the NSF
Requirements. Such records shall be made available to NSF upon request. These records shall be maintained
for a minimum of the preceding three (3) year period, unless a different time period is identified in the
applicable NSF Requirements.
7

--- page 18 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
If the records required by this policy are not retained at the location being audited, NSF shall be advised by the
Company in writing of the location of the records.
GP – 27 Company complaint records
The Company shall retain a record of complaints about its Certified Products relating to the scope of
Certification and remedial actions taken by the Company since the last audit performed by NSF and shall make
the record available to NSF upon request.
At a minimum, the record shall include:
• nature of the complaint
• identification of the Product or services pertinent to the complaint
• confirmation that remedial action(s) have been taken
• status (open or closed) of the complaint, as known to the Company.
The identity of the complainant need not be provided to NSF.
The Company shall provide the record to NSF upon request by whatever means selected by NSF.
Confidentiality
GP – 28 Confidentiality
Where the Company provides NSF with Company confidential information, it shall be held in strict confidence
and shall not be disclosed or used for any purpose other than as specifically authorized/provided in the NSF
Requirements or the Contract without the prior written consent of the Company. Confidential Information does
not include information (a) that is or becomes generally available in the public domain other than through the
action of NSF, (b) lawfully in the possession of NSF prior to disclosure by the Company, (c) lawfully obtained
by NSF from a third party, or (d) independently developed by NSF without use of the Company confidential
information. The term “confidential i nformationˮ means any confidential or proprietary information provided by
the Company to NSF to enable NSF to perform the Certification Services under the Contract.
Advertising
GP – 29 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by Certified Companies:
Advertising, packaging, and literature
Use of a Mark on sales literature, technical publications, promotions, materials, packaging, catalogs, websites
and in any format including electronic means, and in advertising of Certified Products is acceptable, provided
the Company complies with the following:
• Company shall code literature and packaging to indicate version date.
• Company shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any of its non-
Certified Products are Certified by NSF.
• Company shall clearly indicate in advertising, packaging, and literature that any non-Certified product
or component that is sold in combination with a Certified Product has not been evaluated to the
8

--- page 19 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
respective Standard.
• Company shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any Product is
Certified for an end use application for which it is not Certified.
• Any use of the Mark in any literature and advertising that fails to truthfully and accurately reflect the
Product as Certified by NSF is prohibited. Any changes to the product require that the Company shall
notify NSF in writing prior to the change, in compliance with GP – 11 .
• Company complies with all other marketing guidelines or instructions provided by NSF (“Guidelinesˮ).
The Guidelines are hereby incorporated by reference into this Policy. NSF reserves the right to modify
the Guidelines from time to time.
GP – 30 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by parties other than the Certified
Company: Advertising and literature
Use of a Mark on sales literature, technical publications, promotions, materials, catalogs , and in advertising of
Certified Products by a party other than the Company is acceptable, provided the party complies with the
following:
• the party shall code literature to indicate version date.
• the party shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any of its non-Certified
Products are Certified by NSF.
• the party shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any Product is Certified
for an end use application for which it is not Certified.
• the party includes the name of the Company whose products are Certified and are being advertised,
and the trade designation or model designation of the Certified Products or includes specific
instructions that at NSFʼs sole discretion is adequate to obtain the name of the Company and the trade
designation or model designation of the Certified Products.
• the Company complies with all other marketing guidelines or instructions provided by NSF
(“Guidelinesˮ). The Guidelines are hereby incorporated by reference into this Policy. NSF reserves the
right to modify the Guidelines from time to time.
Parties other than the Company whose Product is Certified shall not apply the NSF Mark to a product or any
product packaging.
Investigation of complaints
GP – 31 Complaints
NSF shall investigate complaints by any party related to Certified Products, misuse of a Mark or NSF claims of
NSFʼs Certification Services.
If the Company has a complaint to submit, the complaint shall be sent to NSF. When possible, NSF shall
acknowledge receipt of a complaint, investigate the complaint and take appropriate action. NSF may advise
the subject of the complaint or allegation. When possible, NSF shall confirm to the source that the allegation
has, or has not, been verified as valid. NSF is not obligated to disclose any additional information concerning
corrective actions.
Where possible, the identity of the source will be confidential.
9

--- page 20 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
If the Company submits a complaint to NSF about a third party and such complaint is determined by NSF to be
invalid, the Company shall reimburse NSF for all costs incurred by NSF in investigating the complaint. If NSF
receives a complaint about the Company and NSF determines the complaint is valid, the Company shall
reimburse NSF for all costs incurred by NSF in investigating the complaint.
GP – 32 Investigation of complaints: Sample selection and handling
NSF shall not, for complaint investigations:
• test any samples submitted by a complainant for enforcement purposes
• select samples for testing that are under the control or influence of the complainant, or test samples if
NSF has reason to believe that the samples may have been altered.
Samples for testing for enforcement purposes shall be collected and tested by NSF.
Corrective action and enforcement
GP – 33 Corrective action for general Noncompliance
A Company shall be advised in writing by NSF of all items of Noncompliance. The Company shall submit to
NSF, in writing within 30 days, or the deadline as required by the standard or scheme, of the date of receipt of
written notice of the Noncompliance, a root cause analysis, a corrective action and a preventive action plan
(CAPA) for approval. Once NSF approves the CAPA, the Company shall promptly implement the CAPA. NSF
shall verify the Companyʼs compliance with the CAPA by means acceptable to NSF.
Note. To prevent any misunderstanding, this policy does not relieve a Company of its continuing responsibility to
use the Mark (or otherwise represent as Certified) only on Products complying with all NSF requirements. The 30
days applies to the report, not to the date for corrective action.
In addition to the CAPA, NSF may take the following action:
• NSF may require the Product to be held until the CAPA is completed.
• NSF may pursue additional enforcement action such as but not limited to an unannounced audit or
increased audit frequency.
• NSF may suspend or withdraw Certification for any or all Products for the Location. Other appropriate
action may be taken by NSF including, but not limited to, issuing a Public Notice.
GP – 34 Noncompliant test results for initial qualification
Upon receipt of written notification from NSF that an initial qualification test of a Product is noncompliant, the
Company shall investigate the noncompliant result and provide to NSF the written results of its investigation,
including the cause and any corrective and preventive actions (CAPA) as well as its decision regarding
resolution of the noncompliant result. NSF shall notify the Company regarding the acceptance of the CAPA
prior to any continuance of testing should this be selected by the Company.
When noncompliant test results for an initial qualification represent a public health or safety risk, NSF may
notify the Company about the potential risk and/or may issue a Public Notice even if the product is not yet
Certified.
10

--- page 21 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
GP – 35 Noncompliant test results for Certified Products
Upon receipt of written notification from NSF that the results of its testing of a Certified Product are
noncompliant, the Company shall promptly take reasonable measures to stop all use of the Mark on any
noncomplying Product. The measures shall include:
• Investigation to determine that any continuing production is in compliance
• Review of inventory of Product bearing the Mark to verify that it is in compliance
• Any other measures deemed necessary by NSF to protect public health including, but not limited to an
immediate Product hold, distribution of Public Notice, or the holding in abeyance of any other product
evaluation which could reasonably be expected to be impacted by the noncompliance under
investigation.
In addition to the preceding measures, the Company shall also determine the cause of the Noncompliances
and provide to NSF a description of the root cause and a proposed resolution to the identified noncompliance
in writing within 30 days of notification. The Company shall promptly make any required samples available and
shall be responsible for any additional costs necessary to verify compliance. The Company shall then submit
samples of the failed Product within 30 days of having submitted the proposed resolution for the purpose of
verifying that the noncompliance is abated. At NSFʼs discretion , some retest samples may require auditor
collection.
In the event the Company cannot comply with the 30-day timeframes for proposed resolution of the
Noncompliances or the collection of retest samples, the Company shall advise NSF in writing of the proposed
time to completion. NSF in its sole discretion shall determine the acceptability of the requested extension.
Note. This policy does not relieve a Company of its continuing responsibility to use the Mark (or otherwise
represent as Certified) only on Products complying with all NSF requirements. The 30 days applies to the report,
not to the date of corrective action.
If the Company elects to drop the noncompliant Product from Listing, NSF reserves the right to request the
Company provide written corrective action if the Product is subsequently resubmitted to NSF for qualification
testing.
GP – 36 Noncompliant retest results for Certified Products
If the results of retesting of a Certified Product demonstrate failure for the original failed parameter(s), NSF
shall withdraw Certification of the Product. NSF may withdraw Certification for any Nonconformance.
NSF may take any other measures deemed necessary to protect public health including, but not limited to an
immediate Product hold, distribution of Public Notice, or the holding in abeyance of any other product
evaluation which could reasonably be expected to be impacted by the Noncompliance under investigation.
GP – 37 Use of the Mark on a non-certified product
Use of the Mark on a non-certified product or unauthorized or misleading claims or statements regarding
Certification are prohibited. If the Company uses the Mark on a non-certified product, NSF may withdraw
Certification for one or all Products. Other appropriate action may be taken by NSF including but not limited to
issuing a public notice.
11

--- page 22 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
GP – 38 Unauthorized change to a Certified Product
Unless authorized by NSF, changes to Certified Product immediately result in the Product not being Certified.
The Company shall hold the changed Product in its inventory until released by NSF in writing.
NSF may increase audit or testing frequency, conduct an unannounced audit, withdraw Certification for one or
all Products for the Location. In addition to the preceding, NSF at its sole discretion may issue a Public Notice.
GP – 39 Unauthorized shipment or disposal of Certified or non-certified products placed
on hold
For Product placed on hold, the Company shall hold the Product in its inventory until authorized by NSF in
writing to release Product from hold. For the unauthorized shipment or disposal of any Product placed on hold,
Certified or non-certified, NSF may take any or all of the following actions:
• increase number of annual facility audits
First occurrence
• withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of the non-conforming Product(s)
• increase number of annual facility audits
Second occurrence • withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of the non-conforming Product(s)
• withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of all Products Listed at the Location
Other appropriate actions may be taken by NSF, at any time, including, but not limited to issuing a public
notice.
GP – 40 Bribes offered to NSF
Any attempt by a Company or its employees or agents to offer inducement or bribes to NSF shall result in
immediate withdrawal of Certification and other action deemed appropriate by NSF.
GP – 41 Withdrawal of Certification
NSF may withdraw Certification of any Product, at any time, for failure to comply with any NSF Requirement,
including but not limited to termination of the Contract.
NSF shall notify the Company, in writing, of withdrawal of Certification. Upon notice by NSF (whether written
or oral) to the Company of withdrawal of Certification, the Company shall immediately stop applying the Mark
to the Product. The Company shall notify its distributors and outlets that the Certification has been withdrawn.
The Company shall confirm these actions to NSF. NSF may make public notice of withdrawal of Certification
and the reason for such action.
Upon withdrawal of Certification of a Product or all Products, NSF may require the Company to quarantine,
dispose of, modify, or destroy the entire Product(s), by means acceptable to NSF, to assure that it is not sold,
used, or represented as Certified. The Company shall provide to NSF its plan for the disposal, modification, or
destruction of the Product(s) within 14 calendar days of notification of withdrawal of Certification. NSF shall
verify the action taken by the Company.
Upon withdrawal of Certification of all Products, NSF may require the Company to dispose of, modify, destroy,
or surrender to NSF all Marks, marking devices, and marked materials, by means acceptable to NSF.
Additionally, the Company shall cease all digital marketing and advertising, remove all product images
displaying the NSF Mark and cease all Certification claims. The Company shall provide to NSF its plan for the
disposal, modification, destruction, or surrender of the Marks, marked materials and digital marketing
12

--- page 23 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
compliance within 14 calendar days after NSF notifies the Company of withdrawal of Certification. Disposal,
modification or destruction of the Marks and marked materials shall be at the Company's expense. NSF shall
verify the action taken by the Company. No credit or refunds shall be provided for Marks disposed of,
modified, destroyed, or surrendered. The Company shall also acknowledge in writing that it is not authorized to
use the Mark or otherwise represent that any of its Products are Certified.
If at NSFʼs sole discretion determines that an audit is necessary to verify compliance, the Company shall
permit access.
GP – 42 Public Notice
NSF may issue a public notice for noncompliance with any NSF Requirement. NSF may also require the
Company to distribute a notice to known purchasers or recipients of the Product. The Company shall
cooperate in good faith with NSF in determining who should receive copies of a public notice. The notice shall
include the name of the Company, a description of the Product, including its trade or model designation, the
specific noncompliance and the specific health consequences, if applicable.
NSF may issue a press release of the notice to appropriate print and broadcast media. NSF may distribute a
written notice to those appropriate persons, agencies and entities, which may include known purchasers and
recipients of the Product, appropriate federal, state, and local regulatory officials in the United States and other
countries, NSFʼs Public Health Co uncil, the appropriate Joint Committee(s), Certified Companies, and other
individuals and organizations routinely receiving the appropriate Certification information.
GP – 43 Reinstatement
Following a drop or withdrawal of Certification, Products may not be re-Certified until NSF has reevaluated or
retested, or both reevaluated and retested the Product, has verified that all items of Noncompliance and issues
of ethics or integrity have been satisfactorily resolved, and has notified the Company in writing that it is
authorized to use the Mark in connection with the Product. The Company shall be responsible for any fees
associated with reinstatement, and for any additional costs necessary to verify compliance with NSF
Requirements.
NSF may decline to accept an application of re-certification or maintain a contract for certification from a
client, or former client, when illegal activities, history of repeated non-conformances, demonstrated history of
not complying with certification requirements, or similar issues of concern are present.
Appeals
GP – 44 Appeal of a decision, result or action taken by NSF
Any decision, result or action taken by NSF may be appealed by the Company within thirty (30) calendar days
of the decision, result or action. The appellant may file a written request for appeal with NSF staff. NSF shall,
within thirty (30) calendar days of the written request, inform the appellant of the results of the appeal, unless
otherwise notified by NSF.
To begin the appeal process, the Company must submit a written statement of appeal that must include the
specific decision, result, or action taken by NSF that is being appealed and the basis for the Companyʼs
appeal. Any supporting evidence and documentation that supports the statement of appeal must also be
submitted. NSF may request additional supporting documentation to further the appeal investigation.
Otherwise, any supporting documentation submitted after the statement of appeal will not be considered by
13

--- page 24 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
NSF.
NSF may, at its discretion, hold in abeyance any enforcement action against a Company until the appeal has
been conducted.
All appeal outcomes determined by NSF are final. If the appellant is not satisfied with the outcome of the
appeal, they have the right to contact the accrediting body, if applicable.
GP – 45 Legal action
The Company shall hold in abeyance any formal legal action against NSF until such time that all appeal
mechanisms available have been exhausted.
Fees
GP – 46 Application fee
The Company shall submit payment of the application fee, if applicable, with the signed application form. This
fee, if applicable, shall be paid once by each Company for each NSF program. This fee is nonrefundable.
GP – 47. Standards maintenance fee
An annual standards maintenance fee, if applicable, shall be charged to each Certified Company for each
program area in which it participates.
GP – 48 Certification fee
For initial Certification, the Company shall submit payment of the Certification fee and any outstanding fees
(e.g. audit, toxicological assessment, testing or evaluation) prior to the Official Certification being granted.
GP – 49 Collection fee
The Company shall be responsible for any fees and costs incurred by NSF in collection of fees in arrears.
14

--- page 25 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Section II. Program Specific Policies for GMP Certification for NSF/ANSI
455
Introduction
The Certification program for NSF/ANSI 455 is intended to evaluate Facilitiesʼ compliance with GMP (Good
Manufacturing Practices) as defined in NSF/ANSI 455-2: Good Manufacturing Practices for Dietary
Supplements, NSF/ANSI 455-3 Good Manufacturing Practices for Cosmetics, or NSF/ANSI 455-4 Good
Manufacturing Practices for Over-the-Counter Drugs.
A Certification to the applicable Standard confirms that NSF has assessed and Certified a Facilityʼs conformity
to the requirements of NSF/ANSI 455.
While NSF/ANSI 455 outlines the audit and administrative requirements for Certification, these policies outline
the additional operational requirements for qualifying, obtaining, and maintaining Certification to the Standard.
As part of Certification to the Standard, the Facility agrees to abide by the policies specified herein.
Definitions
Campus location : Multiple site locations that are managed, owned, or operated by the Company within proximity
to one another that are operating under the same quality systems. Additional sites that fall within the scope
include, storage facilities (on and off site), warehouse locations, off site testing, or complaint management.
Excluded sites shall be documented in the audit report. A single audit report will be issued for each Campus
Location.
Company : Entity for which NSF services are performed.
Contract manufacturer : Subcontract facility that produces products, in whole or in part, for purchase and sale
by an independent supplier.
Facility : Company owned or managed physical site or premise, buildings and supporting structures used to
conduct receipt, storage, manufacturing, packaging, control and shipment of products, raw materials,
components, and packaging materials. 1 Sites Facilities are audited for GMP Certification.
Manufacture or Manufacturing: Operations associated with the production, quality assurance and product
safety of a product and may include one or more additional production stages including packaging, labeling,
testing, or distribution.
Objective Evidence: Facts supporting the existence or verity of something. Evidence can be obtained through
1
observation, measurement, test or by other means.
Repeat Nonconformance: Nonconformances cited during a previous audit, that are not corrected by the next
scheduled Audit.
Withdrawal: The complete withdrawal of the Certification for a Facility (including facilities audited under a
Campus location). The Companyʼs name will no longer appear in NSF listings and the Company may not market
their Certification. The withdrawal of listing may impact other NSF Certifications. Company will be required to
re-apply to the program.
1
https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:9000:ed-4:v1:en:term:3.8.3
15

--- page 26 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
For additional definitions, please refer to NSF/ANSI 455-1, NSF/ANSI 455-2, NSF/ANSI 455-3, NSF/ANSI 455-
4.
Program participation & compliance
PP – 1 Program eligibility
Companies that manufacture, package, or warehouse products in scope for NSF/ANSI 455 suite of standards
are eligible for certification. Companies desiring admission to the Program shall meet all requirements and
agree with the terms and requirements of this document to the sole satisfaction of NSF.
Certification Companies eligible for certification
NSF/ANSI 455-2 Good Manufacturer, Contract Manufacturer, Packager, Contract
Manufacturing Practices for Packager, Warehouse & Distribution of dietary supplements
Dietary Supplements
NSF/ANSI 455-3 Good Manufacturer, Contract Manufacturer, Packager, Contract
Manufacturing Practices for Packager, Warehouse & Distribution of cosmetics and personal
Cosmetics care products
NSF/ANSI 455-4 Good Manufacturer, Contract Manufacturer, Packager, Contract
Manufacturing Practices for Over- Packager, Warehouse & Distribution of over-the-counter drugs
the-Counter Drugs
Certified Companies shall fulfill certification requirements at all times, including implementation of required
changes that are communicated by NSF, within an agreed upon timeframe.
PP – 2 Application
The application documents provided by NSF shall be submitted by the Company to NSF and shall contain all
the necessary information to complete the application process. It shall clearly state the scope of certification
requested for each site. If any required information is missing or unclear, NSF shall follow up with the Company
until any known difference in understanding between NSF and the Company is resolved.
NSF will evaluate the application documents and other information as requested from the Company or
obtained by NSF when such information or materials is publicly available. Other information that may be
requested and reviewed by NSF include, but not limited to:
• Any previous history of participation with NSF (or its affiliates) certification or other programs,
including but not limited to facts related to termination, legal proceeding arising out of such prior
relationship, or both;
• Regulatory actions including but not limited to recall, withdrawal; inspections; or other notifications
received from any regulatory agency in the past five years including but not limited to, US FDA Form
483, Warning Letters, import alerts, injunctions, and consent decrees within the past year from
application with NSF;
• Legal or regulatory actions by, against, or involving Company or its products/services, including any
unresolved actions; and
• Company or product marketing, public statements concerning Company, its products, or NSF,
including matters that have the potential to damage or harm NSFʼs goodwill and reputation, or that
conflict with or are contrary to NSFʼs mission and core values.
16

--- page 27 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Upon review of the application, NSF reserves the right to decline a certification application if NSF
determines it is unable to provide the certification activities requested.
PP – 3 Legal and regulatory compliance
The Company shall comply with all applicable federal, state/provincial and local laws, rules, guidelines,
regulations and agrees with terms set forth in Annex A, Annex C and Annex Z.
Failure to comply with this policy may result in the Companyʼs Certification being Suspended or Withdrawn, or
other enforcement action as deemed by NSF to be necessary and appropriate.
PP – 4 Agreement with applicable standards
If one or more policies contained herein are in conflict with a requirement of the Standard, the requirement of
the Standard will be applied based on NSFʼs interpretation of the requirement or intent of requirement.
PP – 5 Shared audit information with other parties
If the Company is a part of another Standard or scheme, the audit report information including but not limited
to grade, nonconformances, audit report, and supporting documentation may be shared in accordance with
the specific scheme requirements.
Any other audits (if applicable) performed by NSF shall be excluded from this requirement.
PP – 6 Sharing of audit information
If the Company wishes to proceed with another Certification Body, the Company shall submit a request to NSF
in writing for audit information it wishes NSF to share. NSF will make available the information pertaining to the
previous yearʼs audits including audit report, Corrective Action Report and supporting documentation within 10
(ten) business days of the received request to contacts designated by the Company.
Certification
PP – 7 Certification scope and exclusion
The scope of certification shall be agreed upon between NSF and the Company. The scope of certification
specifies:
• the manufacturing, packaging, and/or warehousing sites;
• product categories (i.e. classification of products according to form or type);
• product technologies (i.e. process or operations utilized to manufacture or package the product
categories).
The Company may request an exclusion to their scope. A request must be submitted to NSF in writing at the
time of application or prior to the audit detailing the reason for exclusion and evidence to support the exclusion
meets the criteria as defined in the Standard (e.g. photographs, facility floor plan, process flow, etc.). A
request for exclusion is not a guarantee of acceptance by NSF. Approved exclusion will be assessed and
confirmed at the time of the audit.
17

--- page 28 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
NSF reserves the right to modify the scope and exclusions of the Certificate and Official listing at any time to
reflect the accurate operations of the Company.
The following are out of scope for NSF/ANSI 455 certification: ingredient or raw material manufacturers,
ingredient or raw material stand-alone warehouses, packaging material manufacturers, brokers, label
designers and printers, laboratories, office buildings, transport companies, E-Commerce companies, or
facilities producing Medical Food or Functional Food.
PP – 8 Modifications to the Certification scope
The Company shall notify NSF in writing of any changes in their facility operations that may affect the scope of
certification. In order to ensure changes are incorporated into the audit plan, NSF requires these changes be
communicated at least one week prior to the audit start date. Failure to provide this information in advance of
the audit may impact the certification timeline and evaluation requirements. including but not limited to addition
of duration to the audit or conduct of a scope extension audit.
The Company may request to add new sites, product categories, or product technologies to their scope of
certification after completion of the audit. NSF will conduct an extension audit to verify compliance to the
Standard requirements. An audit for an expansion of scope does not change the certification expiration date.
NSF reserves the right to modify scope and exclusions of the Certificate and Official listing at any time to
reflect accurately the operations of the Company.
PP – 9 Audit duration
The duration of each audit shall be determined by NSF according to the criteria in the Standard. NSF reserves
the right to adjust the duration of the audit in order to have sufficient time to assess the Company to the
requirements of the Standard and Policies. If additional audit time is required, the Company shall be
responsible for any additional audit fees.
PP – 10 Auditor assignment
When the Company is ready for scheduling, NSF shall designate a qualified and approved NSF auditor. The
Company is responsible for immediately disclosing to NSF in writing if there is a conflict of interest with the
auditor selected to perform the audit. In the event of a conflict of interest, the auditor will be disqualified from
that audit location. NSF may modify auditor assignment and/or schedule with advanced notice.
PP – 11 Scheduling responsibility
Audits will be scheduled as specified in the Standard. NSF will offer audit dates within the audit window as
defined in the Standard for selection by the Company. Audits must be scheduled during a time when the
facility is actively producing product within the scope of certification. The Company shall be responsible for
ensuring the selected audit dates align with the production schedule of the facility(s) and does not result in a
lapse in the current certification.
PP – 12 Campus Location or multi-facility sites
The audits are specific to the site or location. In situations where activities or operations are conducted at
multiple sites or locations within close proximity (typically within 15 minutes of each other), NSF shall
determine if Companyʼs operations meet the definition of a Campus Location. All sites or locations included in
the campus location shall be included in the audit.
18

--- page 29 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
A campus audit includes but is not limited to reviewing the site operations and quality systems as well as
proximity of other facility locations. Additional audit days may be required to ensure the full scope of the audit
can be performed. The additional audit fees are the responsibility of the Company.
A campus audit does not include evaluation of other Quality Management Systems or legal entities at the site
beyond the Companyʼs certification scope. In the event of other Quality Management Systems or legal entity
names occurring at the same site, each entity must pursue certification under their own entity. Audits may be
performed sequentially but certifications are independent of each other.
PP – 13 Audit readiness
The Company shall ensure the site is operational during the audit and in production of product in scope for
certification that is applicable for distribution and sale. As best practice, a Company applying for certification
should have produced product(s) in scope intended for distribution and sale for at least three (3) months
before consideration for a certification audit (i.e. initial audit). NSF, at its sole discretion, may permit exceptions
to this practice.
The Company shall provide NSF with the applicable documentation required by the Standard prior to the audit.
If the Company does not provide the documents within the required timeframe, the audit may be cancelled.
Cancelation fees shall be the responsibility of the Company (see “PP - 23 Postponed or canceled a uditsˮ) The
re-scheduled audit may only be arranged after Company provides the required documents to NSF.
PP – 14 Certification audit
During the audit, the status of product categories and technologies may be classified as:
• Active - Manufacturing and packaging operations are observed being performed during the audit.
• Inactive – Manufacturing and packaging operations are not being performed during the audit. Review
of production records of inactive product technologies and categories are included in the audit.
• Non-operational – Manufacturing and packaging operations have not been performed by the facility in
the past twelve (12) months or since the previous certification audit. Product technologies and
categories deemed as non-operational will not be listed in the certificate.
PP – 15 Audit completion
The Companyʼs operations in scope for certification shall be assessed for compliance to the Standard. If the
operations cannot be fully assessed, NSF may deem the audit as incomplete. Where an audit is incomplete, a
follow up audit will be required to complete the assessment in order to achieve or maintain Certification.
If NSF deems the site unprepared for the audit, the audit will be discontinued (i.e. aborted) and a reaudit shall
be required. Company is responsible for all fees associated with the discontinuation of the audit.
PP – 16 Audit report technical review
Audit reports shall go through technical review and are evaluated for completeness and accuracy prior to
release. Changes to the report may be made as a result of the review. This may include but are not limited to
reclassification of nonconformance, modification of the nonconformance, and other changes. The
nonconformances cited in the preliminary report shall not be deemed final until the published audit report is
issued to the Company.
19

--- page 30 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
PP – 17 Corrective actions
The Company shall submit planned and actual (as required by the Standard) corrective action for each
nonconformance to NSF within the time specified in the Standard. All corrective action responses shall be
submitted to NSF via the NSF Client Portal. Submission of a corrective action does not change the grade
assigned during this audit cycle.
Requests for extending the submission deadline may be submitted to NSF for review. Company shall be
required to submit a written request prior to the deadline.
Corrective action responses shall include:
• root cause analysis;
• corrective action plan;
• preventive action plan;
• person responsible for implementation of the plan; and
• timeline for implementation of the plan.
Documentation to support the corrective action plan may be requested by NSF as necessary. Objective
evidence demonstrating implementation of the corrective action plan may be required to be submitted as
defined in the Standard.
NSF shall review the submitted corrective action and provide feedback within the time specified in the
Standard. NSF may approve the corrective action or return to the client to request for additional information,
request for clarification, or require an updated corrective action if the original response is not deemed
acceptable. A nonconformance may also be closed without review if it is determined a corrective action does
not need to be submitted or is not applicable anymore.
Failure to provide necessary corrective action information within given timeframes may result in delayed
Certification or may impact the current Certification status of the Company. NSF may request a response from
the Company to address the failure to meet the timeframes as defined in the Standard or Policies.
PP – 18 Disputes and appeals
The Company has the right to dispute a nonconformance. Disputes are resolved following this process:
1. The first level for the resolution of conflicts, disputes, or differences of opinion occurs between the
Company and the auditor prior to the conclusion of the audit.
2. Should a successful resolution not be reached, the Company shall submit a dispute of the
nonconformance, including justification with evidence, through the NSF corrective action process. The
Company shall submit any disputes within ten (10) business days after receipt of the audit report.
3. If the decision by NSF is not accepted by the Company, a formal appeal may be submitted by the
Company within thirty (30) calendar days of the decision. Facilitation of any formal appeal will follow
the NSF appeal process.
20

--- page 31 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
PP – 19 Notification of Certification
The Company shall be advised in writing of the Certification decision. NSF shall issue a certificate for each
certified facility.
At a minimum the certificate shall include the following information:
• standard the Company is certified to
• applicable normative references
• company name
• facility address
• date of Certification
• certification expiration date
• scope of certification (i.e. technologies and categories) and any exclusions
Certification Normative References
NSF/ANSI 455-2 Good 21 CFR Part 111, 21 CFR Part 117, 21 CFR Part 11,
Manufacturing Practices for Dietary 21 CFR Part 1.5 Subpart L & 21 CFR Part 1.9 Subpart O
Supplements
NSF/ANSI 455-3 Good ISO 22716 & US FDA Guidance for Industry - Cosmetic Good
Manufacturing Practices for Manufacturing Practices
Cosmetics
NSF/ANSI 455-4 Good 21 CFR Part 210, 21 CFR Part 211, 21 CFR Part 11, 21 CFR Part 7
Manufacturing Practices for Over- Subpart C & ICH Q1, Q7 & Q10
the-Counter Drugs
Certification dates and deadlines shall not be modified or extended except for administrative corrections.
PP – 20 Public Listing of Certified Facilities
The certified Company shall be publicly listed on the NSF website. Official Listing of each certified facility shall
include:
• company name, address and phone number;
• facility location (city, state, province/country, or other identification that is traceable to the facility);
• facility type;
• scope certification and any exclusions; and
• c ompany website and logo added at the Companyʼs request.
PP – 21 Use of the NSF GMP Certification Mark
The certified Company is permitted to use the NSF GMP Certification Mark with prior written authorization
from NSF. The Company may use the Mark(s) depicted in Annex A, as applicable to their Certification, when
identifying NSF GMP Certification on advertising, literature, the Companyʼs we bsite, tradeshow booth and
promotional materials. Company agrees that its use of the Mark is its representation that the facility certified
by NSF complies with all NSF requirements as specified in the Standard and Policies.
21

--- page 32 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
The NSF Mark, NSF company name, and/or NSF logo shall not be used in conjunction with product specific
advertising, or on:
• Component certificate of analysis, certificate of conformance, or letter of guarantee;
• Packaging material certificate of analysis, certificate of conformance, or letter of guarantee;
• Finished Product labels, packaging, certificate of analysis;
The Company shall ensure, including by use of written contract with its customers, that no products or
packaging/labels of products (whether products of Company or of Companyʼs customers) claim or imply that
the product is manufactured or made in a NSF Certified facility.
It is understood and agreed that the Mark is invalid if, as determined by NSF, the Company has altered or
misrepresented their Certification. NSF assumes no liability for any claims arising from such alteration or
misrepresentation by Company.
The NSF corporate logo shall never be used by the Company.
Special policies
PP – 22 Unannounced audits
Unannounced audits may be scheduled by NSF according to the requirements by the Standard or scheme
owner. If an audit is required to be unannounced, any other audits taking place on the same visit will also be
unannounced. The Company will receive notification of the unannounced audit window, including the audit
plan, prior to the audit. The auditor will arrive on the start day of the audit without advance notification to the
Company.
PP – 23 Postponed or cancelled audits
If a Company requests to postpone or cancel the audit, a request shall be provided to the designated NSF
representative in writing with justification for the request. All postponements and cancellations shall be
approved by NSF.
NSF may request an audit cancellation if in NSFʼs sole opinion, the Company will not be able to demonstrate
compliance to the requirements or timelines of the Standard.
Fees associated with canceled or rescheduled audits will go into effect 30 days prior to the scheduled audit
date and vary according to the notice given and are the responsibility of the Company. NSF refers to these
charges collectively as “cancellation f eesˮ regardless of the type of modification of the scheduled audit date.
NSF reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to waive fees under the following circumstances:
1. Acts of God: This includes natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or other
unforeseeable events beyond human control.
2. Regulatory Inspection: This includes mandatory inspections or interventions by government or
regulatory bodies that prevent the fulfillment of obligations.
PP – 24 Outstanding payments
Failure to pay issued fees in accordance with the contract may result in delays of certification documents and
activities, suspension or withdrawal of certification. Certification dates and deadlines will not be modified or
22

--- page 33 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
extended due to non-payment.
Other audit services
PP – 25 Coordination of other audits performed by NSF
NSF may perform audits other than NSF/ANSI 455 based on the Companyʼs participation in other NSF
certification programs. These audit(s) may be performed in the same visit as the NSF/ANSI 455 audit or on a
separate visit. NSF will determine the length and timing of the additional audit based on the certification scope.
Additional fees may apply and shall be the responsibility of the Company.
PP – 26 GMP for Sport Registration
The Company may pursue NSF GMP for Sport Registration in addition to GMP Certification. The Company shall
successfully complete the following items to NSFʼs sole satisfaction prior to certificate issuance:
• certification to applicable GMP scheme (e.g. NSF/ANSI 455-2, NSF GMP Registration, NSF 229 section
8);
• compliance with Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455 and GMP Registration Policies;
• compliance with GMP requirements in the Certified for Sport® Guideline;
• successful completion of the GMP for Sport audit; and
• submission and approval of planned and actual (if required) corrective actions for audit
nonconformances cited.
To maintain GMP for Sport Registration the Company must complete the following on an annual
basis:
• receive a passing grade on the prerequisite GMP Certification audits;
• complete any required audits as determined by NSF Certified for Sport Guideline;
• all Corrective Action Responses in a terminal status; and
• have an account in good standing with NSF.
The GMP for Sport Registration audit may be conducted on the same visit as the NSF/ANSI 455 audit or
conducted separately.
Warehouse and Distribution facilities are out of scope for the GMP for Sport Registration program.
GMP for Sport Registration is not a prerequisite for companies manufacturing and packaging NSF Certified for
Sport® products unless the certified product is under the NSF 306 All Lot testing scheme. GMP for Sport
Registration does not equate to NSF Certified for Sport® Certification.
PP – 27 NSF Product Certification audit
Where the Company has NSF Certified Product (e.g. NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 229, NSF 527, NSF 306), NSF shall
perform an annual product certification audit of the facility(ies) involved in the manufacturing and packaging of
NSF Certified Product. The audit may be conducted on the same visit as the NSF/ANSI 455 audit or conducted
separately.
23

--- page 34 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
The audit shall verify the Facilityʼs compliance with the appropriate Product Certification Policies, Standard or
Guideline and to verify the manufacturing and packaging of the Certified Product are consistent with NSF
issued documents. Audit includes, but is not limited to:
• verification that the Facility has the most current copies of the Authorized Registered Formula issued
by NSF for each certified product;
• verification that production of certified product is according to the Authorized Registered Formula
issued by NSF;
• review of documentation and records pertaining to production of the certified product;
• verification of manufacturing and packaging controls;
• review of any complaints about the certified product;
• verification of appropriate use of the applicable NSF Mark on certified product.
PP – 28 GRMA GMP Certification
The Company may pursue certification to GRMA GMP schemes. Assessment shall be to the applicable
NSF/ANSI 455 Standard and GRMA scheme requirements for dietary supplements, cosmetics, and over the
counter (OTC) drugs. The Company is responsible for requesting GRMA certification in their application to
NSF, maintaining GRMA membership, and requesting NSF as the Certification Body via the GRMAʼs audit order
request prior to an audit taking place. By doing so, the Company agrees to all audit information (including audit
report, corrective action plans, audit grade, facility information, etc) being shared by NSF to GRMA via the
GRMAuditsphere. The Companyʼs audit information and certificate shall be provided via the platform
GRMAuditsphere in accordance with GRMA requirements.
Company shall inform NSF when a material incident occurs, including, but not limited to product recall(s),
receipt of warning letter(s) or complaint(s), or routine compliance activity or other public agency activity taken
while the facility(ies) is certified. Upon receipt of such notification, NSF shall notify GRMA and may conduct a
special assessment of the certified facility(ies) to investigate or obtain additional information regarding the
reported issue, recall, warning, or complaint.
The certified Company may use or display the GRMA logo in accordance with its certificate(s) of conformity.
Company is responsible for compliance with GRMA Logo – Terms and Conditions.
A Company with GRMA certification is not eligible to use the NSF Mark and will not be publicly listed on the
NSF website.
Enforcement
PP – 29 Suspension or Withdrawal of Certification
NSF, at its sole discretion, may Suspend or Withdraw a Facilityʼs Certification for any reason, including but not
limited to the following:
• failed audit
• violation of NSF policies
• failure to comply with the terms of the contract with NSF or the scheme owner
24

--- page 35 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
• failure to maintain compliance with the Standard requirements
• unprofessional or unethical conduct (includes Company and any Company representative)
• evidence of falsification of records
• failure to submit required documents for Certification
• refused or delayed access for audits
• failure to respond to NSF in a timely fashion
• non-payment of fees or outstanding invoices
• company insolvency or declaration of bankruptcy
• misuse of the Certification Mark
• violations of federal, state/provincial, or local laws, rules, guidelines, or regulations
• failure to schedule the audit within the required frequency and timeframe as specified in the Standard
• failure to submit corrective actions to NSF within the timeline as specified in the Standard
• failure to implement adequate corrective actions within the timeline specified in the Standard
• unresolved repeat nonconformances; or issues of public health concern (e.g. product recall or
withdrawal, etc.)
NSF shall inform the Company and the scheme owner (if applicable) of the suspension and the effective date.
Suspensions lasting longer than six (6) months may result in Withdrawal of Certification.
For the duration of the suspension, the Company shall not:
• Represent itself as Certified to the Standard. The Company shall not be authorized to use the NSF Mark
or claim Certification.
• Use any advertising, literature, the Companyʼs website, tradeshow booth and promotional materials that
may indicate the Company is certified to the Standard.
NSF shall inform the Company and the scheme owner (if applicable) of the withdrawal of Certification and the
effective date and remove the Company from NSF Public Listing. Upon notice by NSF, the Company shall
immediately discontinue the use of the Certification Mark.
PP – 30 Reinstatement
Following suspension or withdrawal of Certification, NSF shall provide the Company the steps and timeline for
reinstatement. The Company may not be reinstated until NSF has verified that any items of nonconformance
have been satisfactorily resolved and has notified the Company in writing that it is authorized to represent
itself as certified by NSF to the relevant Standard. The Company shall be responsible for any fees associated
with reinstatement, and for additional fees necessary to verify conformance with NSF requirements.
If NSF determines that an audit is necessary to verify compliance, the Company shall permit access.
25

--- page 36 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
This page is intentionally left blank.

--- page 37 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Annex A
Certification Mark options and usage guidelines
General usage guidelines
Companies are permitted to use the Certification Mark in the following ways:
• On the websites and social media accounts controlled by the Company when representing that the
Certified facility(ies) are NSF Certified to the applicable Standard.
• In marketing promotional material and other media provided the Company, provided Certification can be
traced back to their Official Listing.
Companies with Certified facilities are also welcome to include links to their official NSF Listing to facilitate quick
verification of their Certification status.
Other guidelines include but are not limited to:
• Colors – the NSF Mark shall appear in approved colors detailed in Table 1 and Table 2. No other colors
are permitted;
• the NSF Mark shall not be cropped or covered;
• w hen referencing NSF International the Certified trademark symbol, “®ˮ shall be used regardless of
where the Product is being sold;
• no part of the Mark shall be transparent;
• the Mark shall not be used in conjunction with any product goods (finished or raw) including the finished
product label;
• u se of “NSF GMP Registeredˮ or “NSF GMP Certifiedˮ or any combination is strictly prohibited on any
Finished Product or Raw Material documents (COA(s), label, website, etc.);
• t he Mark shall not be modified in any way except for its size. The Markʼs proportions shall remain
consistent with any increase or decrease in size;
• the Mark and its contents shall be visible and legible;
• the Mark shall not be placed within another graphic element;
• the Mark shall not imply or misrepresent the Certification issued by NSF; and
• the use of the NSF Corporate logo is strictly prohibited.
For more information about proper usage of the NSF Mark, contact your NSF Account Manager.
A1

--- page 38 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Options for acceptable NSF Certification Marks:
Table 1 – GMP Certified to NSF/ANSI 455
Table 2 – NSF Certified for Sport Guideline
NSF Certified for
Sport® Guideline,
Section 6
A2

--- page 39 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Annex Z
Certification Agreement
The Company shall:
• Fulfill certification requirements at all times, including implementation of required changes that are
communicated by NSF, within an agreed upon timeframe.
• Assure that the Certified Product continue to fulfill certification requirement for ongoing production.
• Make arrangements for:
o the conduct of evaluation and surveillance as required by NSF, including but not limited to,
arranging availability of documentation, records, relevant equipment, location(s), area(s)
o personnel and subcontractors (if applicable)
o investigation of complaints
o participating by observers, if applicable.
• Assure that:
o all claims made by the Company are consistent with the scope of Certification
o the Product Certification is not used in a manner that would bring NSF into disrepute
o no statements are made regarding the Certified Product that are misleading or unauthorized
• Any Certification certificate or report related to Certification shall not be used in any misleading
manner.
• Discontinue use of all advertising that contains any reference to NSF Certification and take actions as
required by the NSF Requirements, or the contract, if Certification has been suspended, withdrawn or
terminated.
• Upon the request of others, provide copies of the certification documents, in their entirety, or as
specified by the NSF Requirements of the contract.
• Assure that references to its product certification in documents, brochures or advertising comply with
NSF Requirements.
• Comply with any requirements contained in the scheme related to use of the NSF mark, and on
information related to the product (i.e. marketing materials, websites).
• Maintain a record of all complaints made known to the client relating to compliance with certification
requirements and made these records available to NSF upon request.
• Take appropriate action based on complaints received, and deficiencies found in Certified Product that
affect compliance with certification requirements.
o document actions taken
• Inform NSF immediately of changes that may affect the clientʼs ability to conform to certification
requirements as stated in the scheme or the contract.
• The Company acknowledges that NSF holds various accreditations that require review, audit, and
inspections by accreditation and oversight bodies, including advisory councils and similar boards or
committees (“accreditation/oversight bodiesˮ). The Company agrees that such accreditation/oversight
bodies may review, witness, and analyze any services and the associated data, information, and
Z1

--- page 40 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
Reports for the Services, whether at the premises of the Company, NSF, or elsewhere. To the extent
required by such accreditation/oversight bodies with respect to the particular Services provided to the
Company, the Company expressly consents that NSF may disclose to third parties the information
about the Company or the C ompanyʼs products or services as directed by such accreditation/oversight
bodies.
Z2

--- page 41 ---

© 2025 NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455

--- page 42 ---

Improving Human and Planet Health
For more information, contact: 789 N. Dixboro Road Ann Arbor, MI 48105 USA
standards@nsf.org nsf.org
