
--- page 1 ---

NSF Nutrition & Wellness Program
Certification Guideline 306
Certified for Sport®
January 9, 2026
NSF Confidential

--- page 2 ---

Since 1944, NSF International
(NSF) has stood at the forefront
of global efforts to improve
human and planet health.
As an independent, internationally recognized
organization, we play a pivotal role in the
development of robust public health standards.
NSF engages in the rigorous testing, auditing,
and certification of an array of products and
services. The NSF mark serves as an emblem
of assurance, signifying to consumers, retailers,
and regulatory bodies that our certified
products meet or exceed requisite standards.
These guidelines are subject to revision.
Contact NSF to confirm this revision is current.
Users of these guidelines may request clarifications and
interpretations, or propose revisions by contacting:
NSF Nutrition & Wellness
789 North Dixboro Road, PO Box 130140
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140 USA
Phone: (734) 769-8010 Email: info@nsf.org
Web: < nsf.org >

--- page 3 ---

NSF Certification Guideline 306
Certified for Sport® Program
Guideline Developer
NSF
i

--- page 4 ---

Prepared by
NSF Nutrition & Wellness
Adopted
November 2005
Revisions
May 2006 August 2008 November 2009
April 2012 August 2013 December 2013
September 2014 February 2015 September 2015
March 2016 December 2016 August 2017
November 2018 June 2021 October 2021
April 2022 January 2023 January 2026
Published by
NSF, PO Box 130140, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140, USA
For inquiries regarding this guideline, please reference the designation: “NSF Certification Guideline for
Certified for Sport® ˮ
Copyright 2026 NSF International
Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any
means without permission in writing from NSF.
Printed in the United States of America.
ii

--- page 5 ---

Contents
1 Scope 1
1.1 Exclusions from program 1
1.2 Certification Policies 1
2 Normative references 1
3 Definitions 2
4 Certified Product Categories 6
4.1 Dietary Supplement or Dietary Ingredient 6
4.2 Functional Food, Beverage or Medical Food 6
4.3 Personal Care Product 6
5 Product documentation submission requirements 6
6 Audits 6
6.1 GMP Certification 6
6.2 GMP for Sport Registration 7
7 Sampling and Testing 8
7.1 Sampling for Certification 8
7.2 Testing Samples for Banned Substances 8
Annex A Certification Policies for NSF Certified for Sport® Program A1
Section I. General Policies for All Products 1
Section II. Program specific policies for NSF Certified for Sport® Program 15
Annex B NSF Certification Mark options B1
Annex C NSF Athletic Banned Substance Screen C1
Annex D Health Canada – Canadian policy D1
Annex E Special Terms and Conditions for Services Relating to Cannabis Sativa L. Ingredients
(“CSL Ingredientsˮ) or Products Containing CSL Ingredients (“CSL Productsˮ) E1
Annex Z Certification agreement Z1
iii

--- page 6 ---

This page is intentionally left blank.
iv

--- page 7 ---

Foreword
The purpose of the NSF Certified for Sport® Program Certification Guideline is to serve as an evaluation tool
for analyzing dietary supplements, personal care and functional foods. Certification to this Guideline serves as
a communication tool between manufacturers of ingredients and finished products, retailers, amateur and
professional sports organizations, and consumers. The Guideline provides assurance that the product does
not contain detectable levels of substances that are found in the Banned Substance list as defined in Annex C .
This Guideline also includes evaluation criteria for product identity and marker constituents and assures the
product does not contain unacceptable microbes, heavy metals, or pesticides by establishment of Certification
to NSF/ANSI 173 Dietary Supplements, NSF 527 Certification Guideline for Personal Care or NSF 229
Certification Guideline for Functional Foods, Beverages, and Ingredients as a requisite for Certification to this
Guideline.
This edition of the guideline contains the following revisions, effective January 9, 2026:
2 Added reference to NSF/ANSI 527.
3 Revised “Batchˮ, “Lotˮ and “Functional Ingredientˮ definitions.
3 Added definitions for “componentˮ, “Nutritional or food supplementsˮ, “Nutritional ingredientˮ and
“Production cycleˮ.
4.3 Added NSF/ANSI 527 as a requirement.
6.2 Explicitly listed ingredients which exclude manufacturers from GMP for Sport eligibility.
Terms in the Program Specific Policies definitions defined elsewhere in the guideline were removed.
Program Specifics Policies were rearranged, and new policies were added.
PP – 1 Conditions of Certification was updated to add NSF 527.
PP – 2 Acceptance of another Certification Body for NSF/ANSI 173 was added.
PP – 3 Designation of Certified and non-certified products was updated to add requirement for reasonable
access for purchase.
Removed App Notification Policy.
PP – 5 General format – (Nsfport.com and Certfiied for Sport App) was updated to revise image requirements.
PP – 6 Maintenance of lot numbers in the NSF Official listings was updated to revise lot number and Public
Notice requirements.
PP – 7 Audits was updated to add facility compliance requirement.
PP – 9 Samples for certification testing was revised to add testing schemes.
PP – 10 Lot by lot scheme explicitly added.
PP – 11 Target testing scheme was updated to revise product minimums. Added in-market product option for
initial qualification.
v

--- page 8 ---

PP – 13 Periodic production theme was added added. Fulfills implementation of Deviation 2025-011.
PP – 14 Added Protein Bar and Protein Beverage Scheme.
PP – 15 Added policy for Another Name For (ANF).
PP – 16 Added policy for Product Multipack and Combination Packs.
PP – 18 Company retain samples of Certified Products was updated to revise Company retains.
PP – 19 NSF retain of Certified Products was updated to revise policy for NSF retains.
PP – 20 Enforcement action for noncompliance was updated to add NSF 527 and NSF/ANSI 527.
PP – 21 Noncompliance to NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 527, NSF/ANSI 527 and NSF 229 was added.
PP – 23 Non-compliance to testing scheme was added.
PP – 24 NSF Certification Marks was updated to add option for mark use implementation period.
PP – 25 Labeling and literature requirements was updated to add Personal care to policy scope.
Annex B Updated marks
Annex C:
Deviation 2025-032 to NSF 306 was implemented, changing the report thresholds for AICAR, octopamine, N-
methylphenylethylamine and N,N-dimethylphenylethylamine to 10000 ng/g, 200 ng/g, 500 ng/g and 600 ng/g
respectively.
Deviation 2025-012 to NSF 306 was implemented, adding an endogenous threshold for AICAR at 500 mcg per
day. The Guideline will be updated to reflect the new thresholds upon the next publication.
Deviation 2025-026 to NSF 306 was implemented, changing the report threshold for GHB to 20000 ng/g.
Added the substances, Higenamine, Daprodustat, Desidustat, Enarodustat, Roxadustat, Vadadustat, BAY 87-
2243, KC7F2, FG-2216, Tolvaptan, Vosilasarm (RAD140), 17a-Methyl-1,4-androstadiene-3,17b-diol, 1-
Androsterone enanthate, 2,17a-Dimethylandrost-1,4-dien-17b-ol-3-one and 3b-Hydroxy-estr-4-en-17-one.
Suggestions for improvement of this guideline are welcome. Comments should be sent to standards@nsf.org ,
or c/o NSF, Standards Department, PO Box 130140, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48113-0140, USA.
vi

--- page 9 ---

© 2026 NSF NSF Certification Guideline 306
NSF Certification Guideline
for Nutrition & Wellness –
Certification Guideline 306
Certified for Sport® Program
1 Scope
This Guideline contains testing, auditing, quality assurance, traceability, and product risk management
requirements for dietary supplements and dietary ingredients, functional foods and beverages, medical foods,
and personal care products assuring that the product does not contain detectable levels of Banned
Substances above the limits as defined in Annex C . This Guideline also references established evaluation
criteria for product identity and marker constituents and assures that the product does not contain
unacceptable quantities of unwanted contaminants, such as microorganisms, heavy metals, or pesticides (as
applicable).
1.1 Exclusions from program
Products and ingredients deemed a hazard to public health or safety by a regulatory agency having jurisdiction
shall be excluded from the scope of this program. NSF also holds the right to exclude from certification any
products containing compounds it deems to be a significant public health threat based on scientific data.
Products and ingredients containing substances Banned or Prohibited in sport shall also be excluded from the
scope of this program whether those are intentionally or unintentionally added to the product or housed at the
facility.
1.2 Certification Policies
The Company shall comply with all NSF Certification Policies established in Annex A of this guideline.
2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference, constitute provisions of this document. At
the time of publication, the editions listed below were valid. All standards are subject to revision, and parties
are encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the recent editions of the documents indicated below.
The most recently published edition of the document shall be used for undated references.
1
Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, 15USC §1451 -1461
2
Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002
1
Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990, as amended
2
FDA, Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997
1
U.S. Government Printing Office, 710 North Capitol Street NW, Washington, DC 20402 <www.gpo.gov>
2
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857 -0001 <http://www.fda.gov>
1

--- page 10 ---

FDA, Dietary Supplements Health and Education Act of 1994, (an amendment to the Federal Food, Drug and
2
Cosmetic Act): Public Law 103 -417 – October 25, 1994
NSF/ANSI 173 , Dietary Supplements
NSF/ANSI 455, NSF/ANSI 455-2 Good Manufacturing Practices for Dietary Supplements, NSF/ANSI 455-3 Good
Manufacturing Practices for Cosmetics, NSF/ANSI 455-4 Good Manufacturing Practices for Over-the-Counter Drugs
NSF Certification Guideline 527, Personal Care Products
NSF/ANSI 527, Personal Care Products
NSF 229 Certification Guideline for Functional Foods, Beverages, and Ingredients
NSF Certification Policies for NSF/ANSI 455
NSF GMP Registration Polices for Dietary Supplement, Dietary Ingredient, and Functional Food Facilities
NSF Health Sciences Product Certification Policies
3
The World Anti- Doping Code International Standard Prohibited List
4
MLB Joint Drug Prevention Program, Prohibited Substances (Section 2)
National Football League Policy on Performance - Enhancing Substances, List of Prohibited Substances ( Annex
5
A )
3 Definitions
Terms used in this guideline that have a specific technical meaning are defined here.
Batch or Pre-Packaged Lot : A specific quantity of a finished product or other material that is intended to be
subsequently packaged into different finished products. The material is intended to have uniform character
and quality, within specified limits, and is produced during a specified time period on a single line according to
a single manufacturing record during the same cycle of manufacture. These quantities are numbered or
otherwise differentiated to allow for traceability by either the facility or outside parties.
Banned Substance/Prohibited Substance : Any substance prohibited by Annex C of this Guideline, WADA
3 4
Prohibited List , NFL List of Prohibited Substances6 and/or MLB Joint Drug Prevention Program .
Component : Any ingredient intended for use in the manufacture of a dietary ingredient or dietary supplement,
including those that may not appear in such finished product.
3
The World Anti- Doping Code International Standard Prohibited List < https://www.wada-ama.org
4
MLB Joint Drug Prevention Program, Prohibited Substances (Section 2)
<http://www.mlbplayers.com/ViewArticle.dbml?DB_OEM_ID=34000&ATCLID=211078494>
5
National Football League Policy on Performance - Enhancing Substances, List of Prohibited Substances (Annex A)
https://www.nflpa.com/active-players/drug-policies
2

--- page 11 ---

Controlled Human Oral Studies : Phase I Clinical study with healthy normal patients.
Cosmetic : A product that:
• is an “article intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled or sprayed on, introduced into, or otherwise
applied to the human body, or any part thereof, for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness, or
altering the appearance...ˮ [FD&C Act, Sec. 201(i) ]
• includes, but is not limited to, products such as: skin moisturizers, perfumes, lipsticks, fingernail
polishes, eye and facial makeup preparations, cleansing shampoos, permanent waves, hair colors, oral
hygiene, and deodorants; as well as any substance intended for use as a component of a cosmetic
product.
Dietary Ingredient : An ingredient intended for use as, or used in, a dietary supplement that is a vitamin,
mineral, herb, or other botanical; amino acid; a dietary substance for use by humans to supplement the diet by
increasing the total dietary intake; or a concentrate, metabolite, constituent, extract, or combination of any of
the foregoing ingredients.
Dietary Supplement : A product (other than tobacco) that:
• is intended to supplement the diet and bears or contains one or more of the following dietary
ingredients: a vitamin; a mineral; an herb or other botanical; an amino acid; a dietary substance for use
by humans to supplement the diet by increasing the total dietary intake; or a concentrate, metabolite,
constituent, extract, or combinations of these ingredients;
• is intended for ingestion in pill, capsule, tablet, powder, or liquid form;
• is not represented for use as a conventional food or as the sole item of a meal or diet;
• is labeled as a “dietary supplementˮ or has the word “dietaryˮ deleted and replaced by the name of the
dietary ingredient(s) in the product (e.g., calcium supplement) or an appropriately descriptive term
indicating the type of dietary ingredients that are in the product (e.g., herbal supplement with vitamins);
• does include an article that is approved as a new drug under section 505, certified as an antibiotic
under section 507, or licensed as a biologic under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262) and was, prior to such approval, certification, or license, marketed as a dietary supplement
or as a food unless the Secretary (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. FDA) has
issued a regulation, after notice, and comment, finding that the article, when used as or in a dietary
supplement under the conditions of use and dosages set forth in the labeling for such dietary
supplement, is unlawful under section 402(f), and does not include an article that is approved as a new
drug under section 505, certified as an antibiotic under 507, or licensed as a biologic under section 351
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262) or an article authorized for investigation as a new
drug, antibiotic, or biological for which substantial clinical investigations have been instituted and for
which the existence of such investigations has been made public, which was not before such approval,
certification, licensing, or authorization marketed as a dietary supplement or as a food unless the
Secretary, at the Secretaryʼs discretion, has issued a regulati on, after notice and comment, finding that
2
the article would be lawful .
DSHEA (Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act) : The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of
1994, an amendment to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FD&C): Public Law 103 -417 – October 25,
2
1994 .
Finished Product : A product requiring no further processing prior to sale to the consumer.
Functional Food : Foods containing one or more biologically active food components or ingredients added at a
concentration known to enhance healthful diet beyond their basic nutritional functions. For the purposes of this
guideline Functional Foods and Beverages, Medical Foods and Beverages and Nutritional Supplements are
3

--- page 12 ---

collectively referred to as “Functional Foods ˮ except where otherwise noted.
Functional Ingredient : An ingredient, concentrate, metabolite, constituent, or extract in a functional
food/beverage that is a physiologically active component with some identified value leading to health or
performance benefits, including reduced risk for disease. For the purposes of this guideline, functional
ingredients, and nutritional ingredients will be collectively referred to as “functional ingredients ˮ except where
noted.
• Class I (functional ingredient): An added nutrient.
• Class II (functional ingredient): A naturally occurring (indigenous) nutrient.
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) : A system of procedures and documentation, written or analytical, to
ensure that the product produced has the identity, strength, composition, quality and purity that it is represented
2
to possess.
Label Claim : The written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of a food or supplement or
additional material associated with the product that provides information on nutrient content, ingredients,
health and nutrient claims.
Lot : A specific quantity of material that is intended to have uniform character and quality, within specified
limits, and is produced during a specified time period on a single line according to a single manufacturing
record during the same cycle of manufacture. These quantities are numbered or otherwise differentiated to
allow for traceability by either the facility or outside parties. A lot can be continuously produced, provided the
components do not change (source and lot), the production equipment use is exclusive and there is no
interruption in production.
Lot, Pre-package lot, Batch, or Control Number: Any distinctive combination of letters, numbers, or symbols,
or any combination of them, from which the complete history of the manufacture, processing, packing,
holding, and distribution of a batch or lot of product or other material can be determined.
Manufacture or Manufacturing : All operations associated with the production, quality assurance and product
safety of a dietary supplement, dietary ingredient, or functional food, and may also include one or more
additional production stages including packaging, labeling, testing, or distribution.
Marker Constituent : A compound present in a botanical that is characteristic of the botanical and used for
technical purposes and that allows for quantification of the botanical ingredients incorporated into the product,
e.g., identification of the botanical or process control.
Natural Health Product (Canada) (NHP) : Under the Natural Health Products Regulations, which came into
effect on January 1, 2004, natural health products (NHPs) are defined as:
• vitamins and minerals
• herbal remedies
• homeopathic medicines
• traditional medicines such as traditional Chinese medicines
• probiotics, and
• other products like amino acids and essential fatty acids.
NHPs must be safe for consideration as over-the-counter products, be available for self-care and self-
selection and not require a prescription to be sold.
4

--- page 13 ---

NSF/ANSI 173 Dietary Supplements : The Standard referenced in these Guidelines that covers the certification
of dietary supplements by establishing evaluation criteria for product identity and marker constituents and
assuring that the product does not contain unacceptable quantities of unwanted contaminants, such as
microbes, heavy metals, or pesticides.
NSF 229 Certification Guideline for Functional Foods, Beverages, and Ingredients : The Guideline referenced
in this document covers the certification of Functional Food, Beverages, and Ingredients products by
establishing evaluation criteria for product identity and marker constituents and assuring that the product does
not contain unacceptable quantities of unwanted contaminants, such as microbes, heavy metals, or pesticides.
Nutritional or food supplements : A product (other than tobacco) that:
• claim to have specific health functions or are intended to supplement vitamins and minerals. It is
suitable for specific people to have, has the function of regulating the body, does not treat diseases for
the purpose, and does not produce any acute, subacute or chronic harm to the human body
• is intended to supplement the diet that bears or contains one or more of the following nutritional
ingredients: a vitamin; a mineral; an herb or other botanical; an amino acid; a probiotic; a nutritional
substance for use by humans to supplement the diet by increasing the total daily intake; or a
concentrate, metabolite, constituent, extract, or combinations of these ingredients
• is intended for ingestion in pill, capsule, tablet, powder, gel, or liquid form
• is not represented for use as a conventional food or as the sole item of a meal or diet
• is labeled as a “Nutritional Supplementsˮ or has the word nutritional deleted and replaced by the name
of the nutritional ingredients in the product (e.g. calcium supplement) or an appropriately descriptive
term indicating the type of nutritional ingredients that are in the product (e.g. herbal supplement with
vitamins)
• the naming convention “nutritional supplementsˮ is intended to represent supplements marketed and
sold in Chinaʼs regulatory jurisdiction
• the naming convention “food supplementsˮ is intended to represent supplements marketed and sold in
Brazil, EU and UK regulatory jurisdictions.
Nutritional ingredient : An ingredient intended for use or used in a Nutritional Supplement that is a vitamin,
mineral, herb, or other botanical; an amino acid; a nutritional substance for use by humans to supplement the
diet by increasing the total nutritional intake; or a concentrate, metabolite, constituent, extract, or combination
of any of the foregoing ingredients.
Over-the-Counter (OTC) Drug : Articles intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or
prevention of disease" and "articles (other than food) intended to affect the structure or any function of the
body of man or other animals" [FD&C Act, sec. 201(g)(1)]. Cosmetics in this category include anti-acne
products, toothpaste and anticavity products, antimicrobial and antifungal topicals, antiperspirants,
astringents, corn and callus removers, dandruff products, hair growth/loss products, nail biting products,
psoriasis products, skin bleaching products, sunscreen, topical analgesics and wart removers. OTC drugs may
make cosmetic claims and then must comply with correct Inactive ingredient listing under Drug Facts
regulations. All OTC drugs must comply with PL 109 -462.
Personal Care Product : A cosmetic, soap, or OTC Drug product applied externally that is for use in such
activities as cleansing, toning, moisturizing, hydrating, exfoliating, conditioning, anointing, massaging,
coloring/decorating, soothing, deodorizing, perfuming, and styling.
Production cycle : The continuous sequence of production steps a product (or product family) undergoes from
its raw material blend through the final packaging process of the product within a week on exclusive
equipment.
5

--- page 14 ---

Soap: defined as products that consist primarily of alkali salts of fatty acids, making no label claim other than
cleansing of the human body, and sold and labeled only as soap.
Specifications : The quality parameters to which the Products or materials must conform and that serve as a
basis for quality evaluation.
4 Certified Product Categories
4.1 Dietary Supplement or Dietary Ingredient
A Company may achieve certification of a Dietary Supplement or Dietary Ingredient, after meeting the
following requirements:
• all requirements of this Guideline shall be met; and
• shall achieve and maintain all requirements of NSF/ANSI 173.
4.2 Functional Food, Beverage or Medical Food
A Company may achieve certification of a Functional Food, Beverage or Medical Food after meeting the
following requirements:
• all requirements of this Guideline shall be met; and
• shall achieve and maintain all requirements of NSF 229.
4.3 Personal Care Product
A Company may achieve certification of a Personal Care Product, after meeting the following requirements:
• all requirements of this Guideline shall be met; and
• shall achieve and maintain all requirements of NSF/ANSI 527 or Guideline 527.
5 Product documentation submission requirements
The Company shall provide the complete documentation necessary to certify the Dietary Supplement, Dietary
Ingredient, Functional Food, Beverage, Personal Care or Medical Food to the applicable NSF Standard or
Guideline in addition to the documentation necessary for certification to NSF Guideline 306.
6 Audits
6.1 GMP Certification
A GMP audit of the location shall be required prior to granting GMP Registration and subsequently certification
to the applicable Standard(s). Each audited location must be fully operating and producing product during the
audit. The scope of the GMP audit may be found in the applicable Standard or Guideline (i.e. NSF/ANSI 173 § 8,
NSF/ANSI 455, or NSF 229 § 8).
6

--- page 15 ---

6.2 GMP for Sport Registration
GMP for Sport Registration may be granted in addition to GMP Registration or Certification to facilities who
manufacturer and/or package Dietary Supplements, Dietary Ingredients and/or Functional Foods provided they
fulfill the requirements detailed in this section. Warehouse and Distribution facilities are excluded from GMP for
Sport Registration scope.
Registration Marks and usage for this program may be found in Annex A of the NSF GMP Registration Policies
for Dietary Supplements, Dietary Ingredient, and Functional Food Facilities or Certification Policies for
NSF/ANSI 455.
6.2.1 Manufacturer shall not have any Banned/Prohibited Substances in their facility. This includes
manufacturing, receiving or warehousing.
6.2.1.1 Manufacturers housing ingredients derived from Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, Cannabis spp., are
excluded from GMP for Sport eligibility. Ingredients derived from hemp seed (hulled hemp seed, hemp seed
protein and hemp seed fixed oil) are exempt from this requirement.
6.2.1.2 Manufacturers housing ingredients derived from Deer Velvet Antler are excluded from GMP for Sport
eligibility.
6.2.1.3 Manufacturers housing ingredients derived from colostrum are excluded from GMP for Sport eligibility.
6.2.1.4 Manufacturers housing DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone) are excluded from GMP for Sport eligibility.
6.2.1.5 Manufacturers housing ingredients derived from Adrenal Glands are excluded from GMP for Sport
eligibility.
6.2.1.6 Manufacturers housing ingredients that may contain banned substances as an adulterant may be
excluded from GMP for Sport eligibility unless controls can be demonstrated to NSFʼs sole satisfaction.
6.2.2 Manufacturer shall ensure that references to the following documents (“listsˮ) are incorporated as part of
applicable operating procedures and prohibit any Banned Substance/Prohibited Substance referenced therein
from entering the facility:
6.2.2.1 Annex C of NSF 306-Certification Guideline for Certified for Sport® Program.
6.2.2.2 National Football League/ National Football League Players Association Banned Substances List;
4
6.2.2.3 Major League Baseball Prohibited Substances ;
3
6.2.2.4 World Anti- Doping Agency (“WADAˮ) Prohibited List .
6.2.3 Manufacturer shall have documented procedures to ensure the following requirements are met:
6.2.3.1 Manufacturer shall review, the Banned/Prohibited Substance lists for changes annually at minimum. All
additions shall promptly be incorporated into the Manufacturerʼs controls to prohibit these substances from
being manufactured, received or warehoused at the location.
6.2.3.2 Manufacturer shall have procedures ensuring all materials purchased are not on the Banned/Prohibited
Substances lists and document execution of those procedures.
7

--- page 16 ---

6.2.3.3 Manufacturer shall provide necessary document(s) upon request by NSF to ensure that Manufacturerʼs
practices conform to the most recent versions of the lists.
6.2.3.4 Manufacturer shall promptly notify NSF in writing of any changes that impact the manufacturerʼs ability
to comply with any of the GMP for Sport requirements.
6.2.3.5 Upon request by NSF, Manufacturer shall assist NSF in obtaining all documents requested from such
ingredient suppliers, including obtaining affidavits about practices, substances, and ingredients.
7 Sampling and Testing
7.1 Sampling for Certification
The Company shall submit the requested quantity of test samples to NSF to fulfill test requirements under the
applicable Standard or Guideline, in addition to the Athletic Banned Substance testing required for certification
to NSF Guideline 306.
7.2 Testing Samples for Banned Substances
Products for which certification under NSF Guideline 306 is sought shall be tested for all substances on the
Banned Substances List (see Annex C ).
NSF shall test samples utilizing appropriate methodology that may include Gas Chromatography-Mass
Spectrometry (GCMS), Liquid Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry (LCMS), High Performance Liquid
Chromatography (HPLC), and/or immunoassay techniques (e.g., ELISA ). Testing shall be performed on Pre-
Packaged product, finished product, ingredients, and/or under Controlled Human Oral Studies in which the blood
or urine is analyzed. Specific preparation and analysis methods shall be validated for product sample matrices.
Detection levels of specific compounds shall be determined by the methodology and the product sample matrix.
8

--- page 17 ---

Annex A
Certification Policies for NSF Certified for Sport® Program
Section I. General Policies for All Products
Introduction
NSF offers Certification of products to any Company, subject to the requirements of the general and program-
specific policies and any annexes attached hereto, including but not limited to Annex Z .
The general policies (Section I) apply to all products being Certified against any Standard, within the scope of
an NSF Certification program. There are additional program-specific policies (Section II) that further define
requirements under each NSF Certification program. The general and program specific policies shall be
considered in their entirety and shall be applied within the context of the standard referenced in the Contract.
For clarity and ease of reference, these policies are presented as individually numbered items with appropriate
headings.
In the event of a conflict, the general policies take precedence over program policies.
Definitions
Certified Product : Product authorized by NSF for Certification and use of the Mark.
Certification : NSF determination that adequate confidence is achieved that a duly identified product is in
conformity with all applicable NSF requirements. For Verification schemes, replace the word “Certificationˮ
with “Verificationˮ and for “Registrationˮ schemes, replace the word “Certificationˮ with “Registrationˮ
Note . The terms “listingˮ or “listedˮ or “certifiedˮ are synonymous with certification.
Certification Services : Any work that NSF performs as part of the process for applying, achieving or
continuing Certification.
Company : The entity executing the contract to seek Certification Services.
Compliance : Conformance with all NSF Requirement(s).
Contract : The authorized written agreement with NSF for Certification Services.
Corrective action/preventive action (CAPA) : An investigation into any noncompliance to expected or desired
outcome that identifies the underlying root cause or reason the noncompliance happened, determines
corrective action to restore compliance and preventive action to ensure the noncompliance does not recur.
Distributor : The distributor is responsible for issuing catalogues and handling sales functions for the brand.
The distributor has direct interaction with the retailer or purchasing customer.
Location : Any point of final production or assembly. Multiple locations that can be audited in one audit day
(eight hours) may be considered one location.
Mark : An NSF trademark designated for the applicable Certification programs and used to represent
Certification.
New Product : Products manufactured, assembled, added or implemented after the date of Certification.
Noncompliance : Lack of conformance with any NSF Requirement.
A1

--- page 18 ---

NSF : NSF International or its subsidiaries and affiliates.
NSF Requirements : Requirements of the relevant Standards, scheme, or program including but not limited to
the general and program specific policies, requirement documents and any agreements or contracts upon
which NSFʼs Certification are based. In all instances where this term is used, it is understood this means the
requirements that are appropriate and applicable to the specific Product.
Private labeling : Manufacture of a product by one company for sale under another companyʼs brand.
Product : Any good, equipment, component, system, service, material, location, compound, or ingredient
covered by a Standard for which NSF offers Certification, including those made on the behalf of another
manufacturer or those distributed by companies other than the manufacturer.
Public Notice : Distribution of a written notice of non-compliance.
Standard : The document that is the basis for the Certification. This document may be an NSF Standard or
protocol, an NSF/ANSI Standard, another voluntary standard, an NSF criteria or other criteria, a government
regulation, or other specifications.
Subcontract Laboratory (SCL) : A laboratory that has been evaluated and contracted by NSF to perform testing
for NSF in accordance with NSF Requirements and procedures.
Authorization for NSF Certification
GP – 1 Eligibility
A company with Products covered by a Standard for which NSF offers Certification is eligible to seek
Certification from NSF.
GP – 2 Application
Application materials provided by NSF shall be completed by the Company for each physical address where
Certification Services are requested.
GP – 3 Contract
A contract shall be in place with the legal entity receiving Certification. A Companyʼs subsidiaries and/ or
affiliates may not utilize the Companyʼs Contract unless bound by the Contract and approved by NSF. NSF may
require separate Contracts. If a Company seeks Certification of Product(s) under more than one NSF
Certification program, NSF may require separate Contracts for each program.
In addition to the Contract, the Company shall abide by the terms of the NSF Requirements and any annex,
appendix, schedule, etc. attached hereto and as such, are incorporated herein by reference.
GP – 4 Notification of Certification and authorization for use of the Mark
The Company shall be advised in writing of the Certification, and the Certification may be made public by NSF
or as otherwise specified by the NSF Requirements. If applicable, upon receipt of notification, the Company is
authorized to use the Mark in connection with Certified Product(s) as outlined in these Policies and the NSF
Requirements. The Company may be required to enter into a separate license agreement with a third party,
such as a scheme owner, for use of the applicable Mark.
A2

--- page 19 ---

The Company may not use the Mark in any way until receipt of written authorization from NSF. Unauthorized
use of the Mark is prohibited. In the event that NSF determines that a Product is not in compliance with NSF
Requirements, use of the Mark is not authorized. NSF may withdraw authorization to use the Mark at any time.
The Company agrees that the Mark, NSF logo and NSF name (“NSF IPˮ) are the sole property of NSF and
nothing in these Policies or the Contract transfer any ownership of the NSF IP to the Company. The Company
further represents and warrants that the Company shall not (1) register or attempt to register any NSF IP or
anything which encompasses or incorporates the NSF IP, (2) claim or otherwise represent that the Company
has any right, title or interest in the NSF IP, (3) give permission for any third party to use the NSF IP unless
otherwise permitted in writing by NSF, or (4) do anything that is prejudicial to the interest of NSF in or to the
NSF IP.
GP – 5 Transfer of authorization for Certification and use of the Mark
Upon request and with documentation of continued compliance with all applicable NSF Requirements, NSF, in
its sole discretion, may approve the transfer of the Contract and respective Certification of specific Products to
another Company for the purpose of a name change, change of ownership, or change of a location provided
that the transfer is permitted by the Standard and the Company, and the new Company execute all required
documents from NSF.
GP – 6 NSF acknowledgment of Certified Products
Certified Products shall bear the Mark or be otherwise represented as Certified as described in the program
specific policies. For physical Certified Products that do not bear the Mark (e.g. not a system, service, or
location), a statement shall be include d in the Official Listing indicating how the Product will be represented as
being Certified.
When a Certified Product is sold with any non-certified product, the Company shall clearly indicate in a
manner visible at minimum at the point of sale, that the non-Certified product has not been evaluated to the
respective Standard. NSF reserves full discretion in determining acceptability of the delineation between
Certified Product and non-certified product.
GP – 7 Use of the Mark for products shown in the Official Listing
The Company shall represent as Certified only Products that are in compliance with all applicable NSF
Requirements. Products may not be represented as Certified until the trade designation or model designation
appears in the Companyʼs Official NSF Listing.
Certification shall only be represented as specifically authorized by NSF. The NSF Product marking, and
advertising shall not directly or indirectly represent, imply, or claim an NSF Certification for an end use
application for which it is not Certified by NSF.
Failure to abide by the NSF Requirements in relation to usage of the Mark and claims may result in
enforcement action including, but not limited to, withdrawal of Certification, and Public Notice.
GP – 8 Trade designations
A Company shall not use the letters “NSFˮ in its trade designation or unique identifier (e.g. name, model
number, or other identification assigned by the Company) for a Certified or non-Certified Product, unless prior
written authorization from NSF allows otherwise.
A Company shall not have a trade designation for a Certified Product that directly or indirectly states or implies
an end use application for which the Product is not Certified.
A3

--- page 20 ---

NSF shall review any trade designation that references all or a portion of the designation of a Standard (e.g.
“51ˮ for NSF 51, “C900ˮ or “AWWA C900ˮ for AWWA C900), or official regulation (e.g. the Codex Alimentarius)
before use by the Company. NSF in its sole discretion shall determine whether the use of any trade
designation reference is authorized. NSF may include information about the scope of the NSF Certification to
any Standards or regulations referenced in a trade designation in the Productʼs Official Listing.
GP – 9 Use of the Mark at authorized Locations
The Mark shall be placed on Products only at Locations authorized by NSF, unless prior written authorization
from NSF permits placement at another location.
GP – 10 NSF brand
NSFʼs iconic blue circle serves as the logo and visual representation of the NSF brand. The NSF brand
represents NSF as an organization and is used by NSF to advertise and promote services and certifications.
The NSF brand shall not be used in the form of a Certification Mark or to promote Certification unless
permitted by NSF Policies.
GP – 11 Product modification
The Company shall notify and request authorization from NSF in writing prior to any changes of a Certified
Product where such changes are related to any NSF Requirement. The change shall be reviewed by NSF and
NSF will advise the Company of any required evaluation or testing. The Company shall not make such changes
to a Certified Product without prior written acceptance by NSF.
GP – 12 Implementation of revisions to Standards or Policies
Upon adoption of a revision to an NSF Requirement that is applicable for Certification, NSF shall publish an
effective date of implementation. All Certified Products shall be verified as complying with the requirements of
the revised NSF Requirement on or before the effective date of implementation.
Except as provided below, Products submitted for Certification after the date of adoption of a revision to an
NSF Requirement and prior to the date of implementation may be evaluated and tested to the previous version
of the NSF Requirement. However, full compliance with the revision shall be verified prior to the date of
implementation. When a revision to an NSF Requirement addresses an identified public health issue, new or
modified products submitted for Certification after the date of adoption and prior to the date of implementation
of the revised NSF Requirement shall be in full compliance with the revised NSF Requirement upon
qualification.
GP – 13 Private labeling of Certified Products
If authorized by NSF, the Company may label Certified Products with a name and trade designation, other than
the Companyʼs, under one of the following provisions:
A4

--- page 21 ---

• Marking for the privately labeled Product shall include the name and trade designation of the company
for whom the private labeling is occurring and shall also prominently identify the original Company as
the manufacturer of the product. The original Compa nyʼs name and address (or a unique company
identifier approved by NSF); and listed trade designation shall be included on the label or data plate,
and in all advertising materials including on all web pages and point of sale packaging. This information
is required in close proximity to each Mark or Certification claim, and in font size equivalent or larger
than that of the privately labeled name and trade designation; or
• the original Companyʼs Official Listing shall include the name and trade designation of the company for
whom the private labeling is occurring, or
• the original Company shall private label the Product with no modifications as “another name forˮ on
behalf of the private label company. A separate Listing shall be issued by NSF in the name of the
private label company, which is supported by the original Companyʼs Certified Product.
The Company shall be subject to additional fees and/or terms and conditions with regard to authorized private
labeling.
Audit
GP – 14 Requirement and purpose of audits
Except where otherwise provided for by these General Policies and Program Specific policies, an audit of all
relevant facilities of the Company shall be required before Certification is authorized, and one or more
unannounced audits may be conducted each calendar year. However, NSF reserves the right to conduct
announced or unannounced audits as needed to monitor for compliance with all NSF Requirements. If NSF, at
its sole discretion, determines that alternate measures may be used in place of an onsite audit, NSF shall notify
the Company of the alternate measures necessary.
At the election of NSF, subcontract auditors may be used in lieu of NSF staff auditors.
GP – 15 Access for audits
Access to facilities and Locations, of both the Company and the Companyʼs subcontractors (where applicable)
for NSF audits shall be granted promptly by the Company. NSF shall make every attempt to accommodate
facility vacations, inventory shutdowns and other non-productive periods or facility closings where NSF has
been notified in advance. NSF shall be granted access to all facilities and locations of the Company, except
where precluded from doing so by restrictions included in agreements between the Company and NSF or by
government regulations, and where NSF has been notified in advance and is satisfied as to the validity of
these restrictions. When necessary, due to travel restrictions, NSF may contact the Company to confirm any
onsite restrictions prior to arranging either an unannounced or announced audit. If unannounced, details of the
time or date of the audit will not be disclosed. Refused or delayed access may result in withdrawal of
Certification and other appropriate actions by NSF including but not limited to, issuing a Public Notice.
GP – 16 Cooperation with NSF
The Company shall provide any assistance required by NSF.
While in a Company's facility, NSF representatives shall comply with all applicable health and safety laws. The
Company shall provide authorized Company personnel to accompany NSF representatives while in the
Companyʼs facility. The Company shall notify NS F in advance of any health and safety equipment necessary
for access to the Companyʼs facility or shall provide the necessary health and safety equipment for the NSF
A5

--- page 22 ---

representativeʼs use during the audit, along with instructions for proper use.
NSF representatives may discontinue an audit at any time where their health and safety may be at risk, if they
are subject to harassment or discrimination, if they feel threatened or subject to abusive behavior, or the
conduct of the Company staff hampers the completion of a valid audit. NSF representatives may also
discontinue an audit in the presence of an individual who they believe may, intentionally or otherwise,
influence its outcome in an inappropriate manner. An NSF representative shall immediately notify the Company
and NSF if an audit is to be discontinued.
GP – 17 Sample collection
The Company shall provide samples of the Product and/or raw material for testing and retesting when and as
required by the NSF Requirements. The samples shall be provided to NSF without charge and shipped
immediately to NSF prepaid by the Company. NSF at its sole discretion may determine the appropriate method
for obtaining a sample, including but not limited to obtaining a sample from the marketplace, at the Companyʼs
expense. It is acknowledged that samples collected outside the United States may experience delays in
customs and transit.
GP – 18 Corrective action report
NSF shall provide the Company with a report detailing all non-conformances noted during the audit.
GP – 19 Audit suspension due to travel restrictions
NSF may elect to suspend travel by its representatives to a specific geographical location or region as the
result of official travel warnings, advisories, or other health and safety concerns including, but not limited to,
civil unrest, personal security, and risk of communicable disease.
If suspension of travel prevents audits from being conducted, NSF shall notify the Company that travel has
been suspended. Where an audit is mandatory for Certification, the Certification for the Location will be denied
or withdrawn until audits can be resumed.
If NSF, at its sole discretion, determines that alternate measures may be used in place of an onsite audit, NSF
shall notify the Company of the alternate measures necessary in order to proceed with Certification during the
period in which audits are not possible.
A Companyʼs failure to comply with the alternate measures directed by NSF may result in the withdrawal or
denial of Certification.
If the audit is conducted by the terms of this policy in place of an on-site audit and the travel suspension
cannot be lifted after a one (1) year period for an initial audit or a two (2) year period for a surveillance audit,
Certification for the Location may be continued for another length of time if approved by program management
and authorized by the scheme and accreditation body. Otherwise, the Location shall be withdrawn from
Certification.
GP – 20 Non-operational Locations
In the event that a Location becomes non -operational due to a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, the
Company may request that the public Listing be maintained for a maximum period of 12 months while the
Location is repaired, or work is undertake n to transfer production to another suitable location. During this
period, audits and annual monitoring requirements of the NSF Certification program may be suspended. NSF
may require an on-site audit of the rebuilt or the alternate location before production of the Certified Product
A6

--- page 23 ---

can begin. In event that the Company elects not to transfer production or to re- build the facility, the Listing
shall be discontinued immediately.
The Company shall document to NSFʼs satisfaction that a Location has been sufficiently damaged to prevent
further production until repairs are completed and shall provide NSF with a time frame for transfer or re-
construction of the Location.
Testing
GP – 21 Conduct of testing
At NSFʼs sole discretion, testing may be conducted at NSF, a subcontract laboratory, the Companyʼs Location,
or another site, as acceptable to NSF.
GP – 22 Test report
Upon completion of testing, NSF shall provide the test results to the Company. When a subcontract laboratory
is used, for proprietary reasons NSF reserves the right not to identify the subcontract laboratory in the test
report but shall provide this information to the Company if requested.
GP – 23 Periodic testing of Certified Products
Periodic testing of Certified Products may be required by NSF to maintain Certification.
GP – 24 Disposition of test samples
NSF reserves the right to retain any Product and/or raw material samples in its discretion. All samples not
returned to the Company based on the Companyʼs direction in the sample collection form shall be disposed of
by NSF in its discretion.
Records
GP – 25 Records of Certified Product information
NSF may require a Company to submit information to document that a Product (or family of Products) fully
conforms with all applicable requirements for Certification. Product information may be stored in a
documentation report or other acceptable format. If required, the documentation report shall be reviewed,
approved, and maintained by NSF.
Each Location shall have access to a copy of the documentation report, and it shall be made available for use
during audits by NSF. The documentation report shall not be copied or distributed by the Company without
prior written authorization from NSF.
GP – 26 Company records
The Company shall maintain at the Location, or have immediate access to, records of the purchase of
ingredients, materials, and components used in the production or assembly of all Certified Products,
production records, shipment records, inventory records and any other records as required by the NSF
Requirements. Such records shall be made available to NSF upon request. These records shall be maintained
A7

--- page 24 ---

for a minimum of the preceding three (3) year period, unless a different time period is identified in the
applicable NSF Requirements.
If the records required by this policy are not retained at the location being audited, NSF shall be advised by the
Company in writing of the location of the records.
GP – 27 Company complaint records
The Company shall retain a record of complaints about its Certified Products relating to the scope of
Certification and remedial actions taken by the Company since the last audit performed by NSF and shall make
the record available to NSF upon request.
At a minimum, the record shall include:
• nature of the complaint
• identification of the Product or services pertinent to the complaint
• confirmation that remedial action(s) have been taken
• status (open or closed) of the complaint, as known to the Company.
The identity of the complainant need not be provided to NSF.
The Company shall provide the record to NSF upon request by whatever means selected by NSF.
Confidentiality
GP – 28 Confidentiality
Where the Company provides NSF with Company confidential information, it shall be held in strict confidence
and shall not be disclosed or used for any purpose other than as specifically authorized/provided in the NSF
Requirements or the Contract without the prior written consent of the Company. Confidential Information does
not include information (a) that is or becomes generally available in the public domain other than through the
action of NSF, (b) lawfully in the possession of NSF prior to disclosure by the Company, (c) lawfully obtained
by NSF from a third party, or (d) independently developed by NSF without use of the Company confidential
information. The term “confidential informationˮ means any confidential or proprietary information provided by
the Company to NSF to enable NSF to perform the Certification Services under the Contract.
Advertising
GP – 29 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by Certified Companies:
Advertising, packaging, and literature
Use of a Mark on sales literature, technical publications, promotions, materials, packaging, catalogs, websites
and in any format including electronic means, and in advertising of Certified Products is acceptable, provided
the Company complies with the following:
• Company shall code literature and packaging to indicate version date.
• Company shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any of its non-
A8

--- page 25 ---

Certified Products are Certified by NSF.
• Company shall clearly indicate in advertising, packaging, and literature that any non-certified product
or component that is sold in combination with a Certified Product has not been evaluated to the
respective Standard.
• Company shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any Product is
Certified for an end use application for which it is not Certified.
• Any use of the Mark in any literature and advertising that fails to truthfully and accurately reflect the
Product as Certified by NSF is prohibited. Any changes to the product require that the Company shall
notify NSF in writing prior to the change, in compliance with GP – 11 .
• Company complies with all other marketing guidelines or instructions provided by NSF (“Guidelinesˮ).
The Guidelines are hereby incorporated by reference into this Policy. NSF reserves the right to modify
the Guidelines from time to time.
GP – 30 Use of the Mark or claims of NSF Certification by parties other than the Certified
Company: Advertising and literature
Use of a Mark on sales literature, technical publications, promotions, materials, catalogs , and in advertising of
Certified Products by a party other than the Company is acceptable, provided the party complies with the
following:
• the party shall code literature to indicate version date.
• the party shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any of its non-Certified
Products are Certified by NSF.
• the party shall not directly or indirectly represent, advertise, imply, or claim that any Product is Certified
for an end use application for which it is not Certified.
• the party includes the name of the Company whose products are Certified and are being advertised,
and the trade designation or model designation of the Certified Products or includes specific
instructions that at NSFʼs sole discretion is adequate to obtain the name of the Company and the trade
designation or model designation of the Certified Products.
• the Company complies with all other marketing guidelines or instructions provided by NSF
(“Guidelinesˮ). The Guidelines are hereby incorporated by reference into this Policy. NSF reserves the
right to modify the Guidelines from time to time.
Parties other than the Company whose Product is Certified shall not apply the NSF Mark to a product or any
product packaging.
Investigation of complaints
GP – 31 Complaints
NSF shall investigate complaints by any party related to Certified Products, misuse of a Mark or NSF claims of
NSFʼs Certification Services.
If the Company has a complaint to submit, the complaint shall be sent to NSF. When possible, NSF shall
acknowledge receipt of a complaint, investigate the complaint and take appropriate action. NSF may advise
the subject of the complaint or allegation. When possible, NSF shall confirm to the source that the allegation
has, or has not, been verified as valid. NSF is not obligated to disclose any additional information concerning
A9

--- page 26 ---

corrective actions.
Where possible, the identity of the source will be confidential.
If the Company submits a complaint to NSF about a third party and such complaint is determined by NSF to be
invalid, the Company shall reimburse NSF for all costs incurred by NSF in investigating the complaint. If NSF
receives a complaint about the Company and NSF determines the complaint is valid, the Company shall
reimburse NSF for all costs incurred by NSF in investigating the complaint.
GP – 32 Investigation of complaints: Sample selection and handling
NSF shall not, for complaint investigations:
• test any samples submitted by a complainant for enforcement purposes
• select samples for testing that are under the control or influence of the complainant, or test samples if
NSF has reason to believe that the samples may have been altered.
Samples for testing for enforcement purposes shall be collected and tested by NSF.
Corrective action and enforcement
GP – 33 Corrective action for general Noncompliance
A Company shall be advised in writing by NSF of all items of Noncompliance. The Company shall submit to
NSF, in writing within 30 days, or the deadline as required by the standard or scheme, of the date of receipt of
written notice of the Noncompliance, a root cause analysis, a corrective action and a preventive action plan
(CAPA) for approval. Once NSF approves the CAPA, the Company shall promptly implement the CAPA. NSF
shall verify the Companyʼs compliance with the CAPA by means acceptable to NSF.
Note. To prevent any misunderstanding, this policy does not relieve a Company of its continuing responsibility to
use the Mark (or otherwise represent as Certified) only on Products complying with all NSF requirements. The 30
days applies to the report, not to the date for corrective action.
In addition to the CAPA, NSF may take the following action:
• NSF may require the Product to be held until the CAPA is completed.
• NSF may pursue additional enforcement action such as but not limited to an unannounced audit or
increased audit frequency.
• NSF may suspend or withdraw Certification for any or all Products for the Location. Other appropriate
action may be taken by NSF including, but not limited to, issuing a Public Notice.
GP – 34 Noncompliant test results for initial qualification
Upon receipt of written notification from NSF that an initial qualification test of a Product is noncompliant, the
Company shall investigate the noncompliant result and provide to NSF the written results of its investigation,
including the cause and any corrective and preventive actions (CAPA) as well as its decision regarding
resolution of the noncompliant result. NSF shall notify the Company regarding the acceptance of the CAPA
prior to any continuance of testing should this be selected by the Company.
When noncompliant test results for an initial qualification represent a public health or safety risk, NSF may
A10

--- page 27 ---

notify the Company about the potential risk and/or may issue a Public Notice even if the product is not yet
Certified.
GP – 35 Noncompliant test results for Certified Products
Upon receipt of written notification from NSF that the results of its testing of a Certified Product are
noncompliant, the Company shall promptly take reasonable measures to stop all use of the Mark on any
noncomplying Product. The measures shall include:
• Investigation to determine that any continuing production is in compliance
• Review of inventory of Product bearing the Mark to verify that it is in compliance
• Any other measures deemed necessary by NSF to protect public health including, but not limited to an
immediate Product hold, distribution of Public Notice, or the holding in abeyance of any other product
evaluation which could reasonably be expected to be impacted by the noncompliance under
investigation.
In addition to the preceding measures, the Company shall also determine the cause of the Noncompliances
and provide to NSF a description of the root cause and a proposed resolution to the identified noncompliance
in writing within 30 days of notification. The Company shall promptly make any required samples available and
shall be responsible for any additional costs necessary to verify compliance. The Company shall then submit
samples of the failed Product within 30 days of having submitted the proposed resolution for the purpose of
verifying that the noncompliance is abated. At NSFʼs discretion, some retest samples may require auditor
collection.
In the event the Company cannot comply with the 30-day timeframes for proposed resolution of the
Noncompliances or the collection of retest samples, the Company shall advise NSF in writing of the proposed
time to completion. NSF in its sole discretion shall determine the acceptability of the requested extension.
Note. This policy does not relieve a Company of its continuing responsibility to use the Mark (or otherwise
represent as Certified) only on Products complying with all NSF requirements. The 30 days applies to the report,
not to the date of corrective action.
If the Company elects to drop the noncompliant Product from Listing, NSF reserves the right to request the
Company provide written corrective action if the Product is subsequently resubmitted to NSF for qualification
testing.
GP – 36 Noncompliant retest results for Certified Products
If the results of retesting of a Certified Product demonstrate failure for the original failed parameter(s), NSF
shall withdraw Certification of the Product. NSF may withdraw Certification for any Nonconformance.
NSF may take any other measures deemed necessary to protect public health including, but not limited to an
immediate Product hold, distribution of Public Notice, or the holding in abeyance of any other product
evaluation which could reasonably be expected to be impacted by the Noncompliance under investigation.
GP – 37 Use of the Mark on a non-certified product
Use of the Mark on a non-certified product or unauthorized or misleading claims or statements regarding
Certification are prohibited. If the Company uses the Mark on a non-certified product, NSF may withdraw
Certification for one or all Products. Other appropriate action may be taken by NSF including but not limited to
issuing a public notice.
A11

--- page 28 ---

GP – 38 Unauthorized change to a Certified Product
Unless authorized by NSF, changes to Certified Product immediately result in the Product not being Certified.
The Company shall hold the changed Product in its inventory until released by NSF in writing.
NSF may increase audit or testing frequency, conduct an unannounced audit, withdraw Certification for one or
all Products for the Location. In addition to the preceding, NSF at its sole discretion may issue a Public Notice.
GP – 39 Unauthorized shipment or disposal of Certified or non-certified products placed
on hold
For Product placed on hold, the Company shall hold the Product in its inventory until authorized by NSF in
writing to release Product from hold. For the unauthorized shipment or disposal of any Product placed on hold,
Certified or non-certified, NSF may take any or all of the following actions:
• increase number of annual facility audits
First occurrence
• withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of the non-conforming Product(s)
• increase number of annual facility audits
Second occurrence • withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of the non-conforming Product(s)
• withdrawal of Certification, per GP – 41 , of all Products Listed at the Location
Other appropriate actions may be taken by NSF, at any time, including, but not limited to issuing a public
notice.
GP – 40 Bribes offered to NSF
Any attempt by a Company or its employees or agents to offer inducement or bribes to NSF shall result in
immediate withdrawal of Certification and other action deemed appropriate by NSF.
GP – 41 Withdrawal of Certification
NSF may withdraw Certification of any Product, at any time, for failure to comply with any NSF Requirement,
including but not limited to termination of the Contract.
NSF shall notify the Company, in writing, of withdrawal of Certification. Upon notice by NSF (whether written
or oral) to the Company of withdrawal of Certification, the Company shall immediately stop applying the Mark
to the Product. The Company shall notify its distributors and outlets that the Certification has been withdrawn.
The Company shall confirm these actions to NSF. NSF may make public notice of withdrawal of Certification
and the reason for such action.
Upon withdrawal of Certification of a Product or all Products, NSF may require the Company to quarantine,
dispose of, modify, or destroy the entire Product(s), by means acceptable to NSF, to assure that it is not sold,
used, or represented as Certified. The Company shall provide to NSF its plan for the disposal, modification, or
destruction of the Product(s) within 14 calendar days of notification of withdrawal of Certification. NSF shall
verify the action taken by the Company.
Upon withdrawal of Certification of all Products, NSF may require the Company to dispose of, modify, destroy,
or surrender to NSF all Marks, marking devices, and marked materials, by means acceptable to NSF.
Additionally, the Company shall cease all digital marketing and advertising, remove all product images
displaying the NSF Mark and cease all Certification claims. The Company shall provide to NSF its plan for the
disposal, modification, destruction, or surrender of the Marks, marked materials and digital marketing
A12

--- page 29 ---

compliance within 14 calendar days after NSF notifies the Company of withdrawal of Certification. Disposal,
modification or destruction of the Marks and marked materials shall be at the Company's expense. NSF shall
verify the action taken by the Company. No credit or refunds shall be provided for Marks disposed of,
modified, destroyed, or surrendered. The Company shall also acknowledge in writing that it is not authorized to
use the Mark or otherwise represent that any of its Products are Certified.
If at NSFʼs sole discretion determines that an audit is necessary to verify compliance, the Company shall
permit access.
GP – 42 Public Notice
NSF may issue a public notice for noncompliance with any NSF Requirement. NSF may also require the
Company to distribute a notice to known purchasers or recipients of the Product. The Company shall
cooperate in good faith with NSF in determining who should receive copies of a public notice. The notice shall
include the name of the Company, a description of the Product, including its trade or model designation, the
specific noncompliance and the specific health consequences, if applicable.
NSF may issue a press release of the notice to appropriate print and broadcast media. NSF may distribute a
written notice to those appropriate persons, agencies and entities, which may include known purchasers and
recipients of the Product, appropriate federal, state, and local regulatory officials in the United States and other
countries, NSFʼs Public Health Council, the appropriate Joint Committee(s), Certified Companies, and other
individuals and organizations routinely receiving the appropriate Certification information.
GP – 43 Reinstatement
Following a drop or withdrawal of Certification, Products may not be re-Certified until NSF has reevaluated or
retested, or both reevaluated and retested the Product, has verified that all items of Noncompliance and issues
of ethics or integrity have been satisfactorily resolved, and has notified the Company in writing that it is
authorized to use the Mark in connection with the Product. The Company shall be responsible for any fees
associated with reinstatement, and for any additional costs necessary to verify compliance with NSF
Requirements.
NSF may decline to accept an application of re-certification or maintain a contract for certification from a
client, or former client, when illegal activities, history of repeated non-conformances, demonstrated history of
not complying with certification requirements, or similar issues of concern are present.
Appeals
GP – 44 Appeal of a decision, result or action taken by NSF
Any decision, result or action taken by NSF may be appealed by the Company within thirty (30) calendar days
of the decision, result or action. The appellant may file a written request for appeal with NSF staff. NSF shall,
within thirty (30) calendar days of the written request, inform the appellant of the results of the appeal, unless
otherwise notified by NSF.
To begin the appeal process, the Company must submit a written statement of appeal that must include the
specific decision, result, or action taken by NSF that is being appealed and the basis for the Companyʼs
appeal. Any supporting evidence and documentation that supports the statement of appeal must also be
submitted. NSF may request additional supporting documentation to further the appeal investigation.
Otherwise, any supporting documentation submitted after the statement of appeal will not be considered by
A13

--- page 30 ---

NSF.
NSF may, at its discretion, hold in abeyance any enforcement action against a Company until the appeal has
been conducted.
All appeal outcomes determined by NSF are final. If the appellant is not satisfied with the outcome of the
appeal, they have the right to contact the accrediting body, if applicable.
GP – 45 Legal action
The Company shall hold in abeyance any formal legal action against NSF until such time that all appeal
mechanisms available have been exhausted.
Fees
GP – 46 Application fee
The Company shall submit payment of the application fee, if applicable, with the signed application form. This
fee, if applicable, shall be paid once by each Company for each NSF program. This fee is nonrefundable.
GP – 47 Standards maintenance fee
An annual standards maintenance fee, if applicable, shall be charged to each Certified Company for each
program area in which it participates.
GP – 48 Certification fee
For initial Certification, the Company shall submit payment of the Certification fee and any outstanding fees
(e.g. audit, toxicological assessment, testing or evaluation) prior to the Official Certification being granted.
GP – 49 Collection fee
The Company shall be responsible for any fees and costs incurred by NSF in collection of fees in arrears.
A14

--- page 31 ---

Section II. Program specific policies for NSF Certified for Sport® Program
Definitions
Authorized Registered Formulation (ARF) : Documentation that is generated at NSF and sent to the
manufacturer to register the formulation of the Product that is authorized for Certification and is to be made
available to NSF auditors during audits for the purpose of verifying that only authorized materials are being
used in Certified Products. This document supports the Certified Product Listing.
Contract Manufactured : Products manufactured, in whole or in part, for the supplier by a subcontractor.
Official Listing/Listing : The public directory where all Certified Products will be displayed by trade designation
for each qualified facility location. Listings may be found though the nsf.org home webpage. Only products
listed on this page may be represented as Certified.
Mark : NSF Certified for Sport® mark
Pre-Packaged : Pre-Packaged form means the product is in final form where no further ingredient, flavor, or
additive processing shall occur outside of packaging the Finished Product.
Protein Bar and Protein Beverage : A bar or beverage product where the primary marketed nutrient is protein.
Products may also be fortified with vitamins and/or minerals. This excludes powders, pills and capsules.
Targeted Testing : A scheme where a specified number of lots, as determined by NSF, are selected and tested
to represent the entire population of a specific Trade Designation and permit its Certification in whole.
Testing : Refers to the evaluation of results compiled by the testing of ingredients and finished products or
results obtained by retesting as appropriate.
Unauthorized Registered Formulation (URF) : Documentation that is generated at NSF and sent to the
manufacturer to register the formulation of the product. This document shall not support Certified Product
Listing.
General requirements
PP – 1 Conditions of Certification
Product is eligible to be certified to NSF 306 under the following conditions:
• All requirements of NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 229 or NSF/ANSI-527, NSF 527 Certification are met and found
to be compliant; and
• First production run of Product shall be submitted for annual testing requirements of NSF/ANSI 173,
NSF 229, NSF/ANSI 527, NSF 527 and the annual sampling requirements have been met, unless
otherwise approved by NSF in advance; and
• Submissions for certification are subjected to the NSF athletic banned substance screening, with test
results not exceeding the report threshold, the per serving threshold (for endogenous substances)
and/or the maximum report threshold as described in Annex C ; and
• The Product does not contain other dietary ingredients in Annex C or ingredients that are banned by
sports organizations.
A15

--- page 32 ---

PP – 2 Acceptance of another Certification Body for NSF/ANSI 173
NSF may accept certification of a Product certified to NSF/ANSI 173 with a one-year transition from date of
application to NSF provided the following criteria are met to NSFʼs sole satisfaction:
• Certification Body is accredited to ISO 17065 and has NSF/ANSI 173 listed as an accredited scope
• Certification Body is accredited to ISO 17025 for Dietary Supplement testing
• Product is Certified to the most recent version of NSF/ANSI 173
• Customer provides NSF with all required documentation for Products seeking certification to this
guideline which includes but is not limited to:
o Test report with testing details
o Testing methodology (if applicable)
o Formulation
o Product Information Form
o Certificates of Analysis (COAs)
o Product labels
o Bracketed formulas (if applicable)
 Bracketed products may be considered, but shall be reviewed by NSF to determine
compliance (i.e. technical review and formula review) to confirm they are equitable to
NSF scheme requirements
o Ingredient safety information (if applicable)
o Audit report demonstrating compliance to NSF/ANSI 173, Section 8 including supporting
information
 Valid certificate from an accredited Certification Body (ISO 17065 with NSF/ANSI 455-2
and applicable product forms listed on certificate)
 Corrective Action Report showing corrective action closure and acceptance
 Additional supporting documentation to support corrective action resolution
Fees can apply for the review of these documents but do not guarantee acceptance to the Certified for
Sport Program. NSF may deem that additional testing is required to demonstrate compliance.
• If accepted
o Certification shall only be to the Lot -by- Lot Scheme. Other schemes may only be
pursued once the NSF/ANSI 173 certification has been transferred to NSF.
o The use of the NSF/ANSI 173 certification mark is prohibited until certification is
obtained from NSF.
o NSF/ANSI 173 application shall be submitted and transferred and Certified within the
twelve-month period from application date. Failure to comply shall result in the
immediate Withdraw from certification and public listings.
o Full compliance with the guideline and policies.
A16

--- page 33 ---

PP – 3 Designation of Certified and non-Certified Products
A Company shall not use the same designation, or brand name on its Certified and non-certified product.
If the designation or brand name for a Companyʼs Products is the Company name or a registered trademark,
either the Certified or non-certified product shall include additional information that clearly differentiates the
Certified Product from the non-certified product.
For Certified Product with “Lot by Lotˮ listings: different Lot numbers satisfies the requirements of this policy.
For Certified Product with “All Lotˮ listings: different Lot numbers do not satisfy the requirements of this policy.
Certification shall not be implied or misrepresented to consumers (i.e. product packaging, Product label,
marketing sites, promotional material, etc.). In cases when the brand and/or trade name is the same for a
product, but not all production lots and locations are certified, Consumers shall have reasonable access to
purchase Certified Product.
Official listing
PP – 4 General format (NSF.org)
The Official Listing may include at a minimum the following information for each Company with Certified
Products:
• Company name, address and phone number;
• Company website;
• Production location (city/state, province/country, or other facility identification that is traceable to the
production facility);
• Product sales contact;
• Nutrient Category;
• Trade name or designation;
• Product ID (Lot/Batch Number or “Allˮ in the case when a Certified Product is tested under the Targeted
Testing ( PP-11 ) or Pre-Packaged testing schemes ( PP-12 );
• Product Form;
• Recommended Daily Serving Size; and
• The Company logo may be added to the Official Listing at the Companyʼs request.
PP – 5 General format – (NSFSPORT.com and Certified for Sport® App)
The Official Listing may include at a minimum the following information for each Company with Certified
Products:
• Company website;
• Product sales contact;
• Trade Designation;
A17

--- page 34 ---

• Product photo;
• Product family photo;
• Brand logo;
• Product label; and
• Product Details;
o Brand
o Product type
o Purpose/Goal (limit 5)
o Qualified Lot Number(s)
o Product Form
o Flavor Category
o Serving Size
o Calories
o Sugar
o Fat
o Carbohydrates
o Protein
o Country of Sale
o Package Size
For all images, the required specs will be:
• Should be in “.pngˮ format only (not .jpeg, .gif, .tiff, .eps or .bmp)
• Images should be high resolution (minimum 300x300 pixels)
• Images should be either on white background or transparent (preferably transparent)
PP – 6 Maintenance of lot numbers in the NSF Official Listings
NSF will maintain the Listing of Certified Products for one (1) year past the product shelf life or expiration date.
In the event no product shelf life or expiration date exists, Product lots may be removed by NSF three (3) years
from their original listed date.
When a Company withdraws or is withdrawn from Certification to this Guideline and has a Certified Product
with an “Allˮ lot listing , the “Allˮ lot l istings will be converted to a “Lot by Lotˮ listing. Individual lot numbers
produced during the time the Companyʼs Product(s) held the “Allˮ lot designation shall be identified from
monthly production records submissions required in PP-11 , PP-12 , PP-13 or PP-14 . In the absence of the
monthly production records NSF will list only the specific lot numbers identified on passing certification test
reports released by NSF during the “Allˮ lot designation period.
NSF reserves the right to remove products from Official Listings without notice to the Company. Reasons for
removal of listings may include but are not limited to; Company no longer actively pursuing certification; NSF
has been notified that the product is no longer available for purchase in the marketplace; or Company is
A18

--- page 35 ---

dropped due to non-payment. A Public Notice may be issued upon removal in accordance with GP-41 and GP-
42 in circumstances where marked product is still available in the market.
Upon written request from the Company, NSF may remove an individual lot n umber from the Official Listing. A
Public Notice may be issued upon removal in accordance with GP-41 and GP-42 in circumstances where
marked product is still available in the market.
Audit
PP – 7 Audits
The scope and frequency of audits shall be in accordance with the requirements of NSF/ANSI 173, NSF/ANSI
455, NSF/ANSI 527, NSF 527 or NSF 229. Additional audits may be required for noncompliance resulting from
unsatisfactory test results or other noncompliance of Certified Products, misuse of the Mark, investigation of
complaints, product recall, or other reasons stipulated in the contract or policies. Facility compliance is
required for Products to remain Certified to this Guideline.
Sampling/Testing
PP – 8 Samples for Certificating testing
Products submitted for Certification testing shall:
• be in finished product form unless otherwise specified by this guideline;
• submitted in the quantity of sample requested for testing; and
• sent to NSF with the provided shipping forms.
PP – 9 Samples for Certificating testing
NSF offers six (6) testing scheme options for Certification to the Guideline:
• Lot by Lot;
• Periodic Production;
• Protein Bar and Protein Beverage;
• Pre-Packaged;
• ANF (Another Name For); and
• Targeted Testing.
NSF will request Product samples to test in support of Certification to this guideline. The number and
frequency of testing required to certify and/or maintain ongoing Certification will depend on the Companyʼs
Listing type (lot by lot or “Allˮ lots). For products with an “Allˮ lot Listing, NSF will determine the frequency of
testing based on Productʼs testing scheme. See PP – 11 , PP – 12 , PP – 13 and PP – 14 for specific requirements
of these testing schemes.
Only the Lot -by- Lot scheme can be combined with another testing scheme at the same facility location.
A19

--- page 36 ---

Combination of other schemes is prohibited.
Manufacturers ineligible for GMP for Sport are ineligible to manufacture product for schemes other than Lot by
Lot.
PP – 10 Lot by lot Scheme
Qualifications :
• The base program for certified product(s) where individual lots may be certified without the
requirement of certification for every lot.
• Each Product lot shall meet the program requirements described in PP-1 or PP-2 , and PP-3 .
• Product shall not be released from brand control until all requirements have been met.
• GMP for Sport is not required for compliance to this scheme.
• Products with ingredients that pose elevated risks to athletes may only be eligible for certification with
this scheme.
Listing :
After qualification criteria have been met, the Product listing shall reflect the lot number on the Official Listings
page for each trade designation that has met the criteria.
PP – 11 Target testing scheme
Qualifications:
• GMP for Sport Registration is required for all facilities involved in the manufacturing and packaging of
Products (except labelling only facilities) certified under this scheme;
• Products shall be manufactured and packaged at the same facility location unless the manufacturer
can demonstrate to NSFʼs sole satisfaction that there is no exposure of banned substances to the
Product and has full control & traceability of the Product;
• When a Certified Product is produced at multiple facilities, all production locations and all Product shall
be Certified to one or more certification schemes;
• The facility shall manufacture a minimum of four (4) lots per month of a Product(s)Family(ies) certified
to this scheme;
• Company shall successfully complete Certification for a specified number of product samples before
shifting to the Targeted Testing scheme. The number of lots that must achieve Certification to this
Guideline will be determined by NSF based on the facility ʼs production frequency, the product
formulation(s) and flavor(s) Certified;
• The Company, at the sole discretion of NSF, may use Product in market to fulfill Certification
qualification requirements. Product shall not be considered Certified nor bear the mark. The product
shall fulfill all other requirements of this guideline; and
• By participating in this testing scheme, all Finished Product lots of the participating Product shall be
Certified to this Guideline.
A20

--- page 37 ---

Listing :
After qualification criteria have been met, product listing shall reflect “Allˮ on the Official Listings page for each
trade designation that has met the criteria. After such time, testing shall be performed randomly each month to
monitor for compliance. Failure to meet any of the requirements below shall result in re-evaluation to the
scheme and possible Withdraw.
Other requirements include but are not limited to:
• Application of this scheme is specific to the facility;
• Production of finished lots produced by each facility shall be shared with NSF monthly;
• Product shall be submitted in finished product form;
• Monthly sample requirements shall be met;
• In the event of monthly production disruption, previous months production may be used in its place to
fulfil the minimum sample requirements (not to exceed two occurrences in a calendar year);
• Monthly samples shall be submitted no later than the last business day of the month; and
• All other requirements of this guideline shall be met.
PP – 12 Pre-packaged Scheme
Qualifications :
• GMP for Sport Registration is required for all facilities involved in the manufacturing and packaging of
Products (except labelling only facilities) certified under this scheme;
• Products shall be manufactured and packaged at the same facility location unless the manufacturer
can demonstrate to NSFʼs sole satisfaction that there is no exposure of banned substances to the
Product and has full control & traceability of the Product
• When a Certified Product is produced at multiple facilities, all production locations and Product shall be
Certified to this Guideline; and
• By participating in this testing scheme, all unique pre-packaged production lots shall be tested and
Certified to this Guideline.
Listing :
After qualification criteria have been met, product listing shall reflect “Allˮ on the Official Listings page for each
trade designation that has met the criteria. After such time, testing shall be performed on each Pre-Packaged
production at each facility location in addition to the random quarterly sampling. Failure to meet any of the
requirements below shall result in re-evaluation to the scheme and possible Withdrawal.
Other requirements include but are not limited to:
• Application of this scheme is specific to the facility;
• Product shall be held and not released until Certified for Sport® testing has been issued as a “Passˮ;
• Production of Pre-Packaged lots and their respective finished lots by each individual facility shall be
shared with NSF monthly;
• Each facility shall have random quarterly finished product testing performed each year in addition to
the scheme; and
A21

--- page 38 ---

• All other requirements of this guideline shall be met.
PP – 13 Periodic Production Scheme
Qualifications :
• GMP for Sport Registration is required for all facilities involved in the manufacturing and packaging of
Products (except labelling only facilities) certified under this scheme;
• Products shall be manufactured and packaged at the same facility location unless the manufacturer
can demonstrate to NSFʼs sole satisfaction that there is no exposure of banned substances to the
Product and has full control & traceability of the Product;
• The facility shall manufacture a minimum of forty-eight (48) lots annually (twelve month period,
January to January) of a Certified Product (or family of Certified Products);
The Company must provide a minimum of 12 months of production records for each Product (or Product
Family) for eligibility to this scheme;
• Company shall successfully complete Certification for a specified number of product samples before
shifting to the Periodic Production scheme. The number of lots that must achieve Certification to this
Guideline will be determined by NSF based on the facil ityʼs production frequency, the product
formulation(s) and flavor(s) Certified; and
• By participating in this testing scheme, all Finished Product lots of the participating Product shall be
Certified to this Guideline.
Listing :
After qualification criteria have been met, product listing shall reflect “Allˮ on the Official Listings page for each
trade designation that has met the criteria. After such time, testing shall be performed randomly after each
production cycle to monitor for compliance. Failure to meet any of the requirements below shall result in re-
evaluation to the scheme and possible Withdrawal.
Other requirements include but are not limited to:
• Application of this scheme is specific to the facility;
• Production of finished lots produced by each facility shall be shared with NSF after each production
cycle;
• Product shall be submitted in finished product form;
• Production cycle sample requirements shall be met;
• Client shall provide each finished product and its lot number from the production cycle
• Production cycle samples shall be submitted no later than the five (5) business days after the cycle
end; and
• All other requirements of this guideline shall be met.
PP – 14 Protein Bar and Protein Beverage Scheme
Qualifications :
• The product shall be a protein bar or a RTD protein shake or water.
• Products shall only be fortified with protein, vitamins and/or minerals.
A22

--- page 39 ---

• GMP for Sport Registration is required for all facilities involved in the manufacturing and packaging of
Products (except labelling only facilities) certified under this scheme;
• Products shall be manufactured and packaged at the same facility location unless the manufacturer
can demonstrate to NSFʼs sole satisfaction that there is no exposure of banned substances to the
Product and has full control & traceability of the Product
• Company shall successfully complete Certification for a specified number of product samples before
shifting to the scheme. The number of lots that must achieve Certification to this Guideline will be
determined by NSF based on the facilityʼs production fre quency, the product formulation(s) and
flavor(s) Certified;
• When a Certified Product is produced at multiple facilities, all production locations and Product shall be
Certified to this Guideline; and
• By participating in this testing scheme, all Finished Product lots of the participating Product shall be
Certified to this Guideline.
Listing :
After qualification criteria have been met, product listing shall reflect “Allˮ on the Official Listings page for each
trade designation that has met the criteria. After such time, testing shall be performed on each Protein Bar and
Beverage production at each facility location by random quarterly sampling. Failure to meet any of the
requirements below shall result in re-evaluation to the scheme and possible Withdrawal.
Other requirements include but are not limited to:
• Application of this scheme is specific to the facility;
• Production of finished lots produced by each facility shall be shared with NSF monthly;
• Monthly random samples shall be procured no later than the last business day of the month; and
• All other requirements of this guideline shall be met.
PP – 15 Another Name for (ANF)
• The ANF program permits products certified to NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 229, NSF 527, or NSF/ANSI 527
eligibility for Certified for Sport under a different company name;
• Both Companies shall agree to NSF terms and conditions pertaining to this program for each facility
location;
• The program allows a different Company to certify to this guideline under the Lot -by- Lot scheme,
products meeting the General Requirements described in PP-1 and PP-3 ;
• No other testing schemes are permitted;
• Companies must ensure compliance with all relevant regulations and standards pertaining to the
NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 229, NSF 527, or NSF/ANSI 527 certifications;
• If Certification Requirements for a product are no longer met under PP-1 or PP-3 , NSF shall Withdraw
Certification and no future lots will be eligible for certification. Lot numbers will be maintained in
accordance with Maintenance of lot numbers in the NSF Official Listing Policy ( PP-6 ); and
• All other requirements of this guideline shall be met.
A23

--- page 40 ---

PP – 16 Product multipack and combination packs
Finished Products that have been certified to this guideline as individual lots and are subsequently combined
into different secondary packaging may be exempt from additional testing. This exemption is contingent upon
the verification that all lots within the secondary packaging have been tested by NSF. NSF will perform a GMP
document review and list the secondary packaging lots accordingly. To ensure compliance and facilitate this
process, all manufacturing records shall be up to date and accurate (additional fees may apply).
PP – 17 Alternate sources of test samples
At NSFʼs discretion, samples of Certified Products may be obtained at any time and tested by NSF. All costs
associated with purchasing and testing Products can be charged back to the Company.
PP – 18 Company retain samples of Certified Products
The Company shall retain or have access to one (1) year a sample of the identical Product Lot and flavor(s)
Certified to this Guideline or until the Certified Product has expired. The quantity of the Companyʼs retain shall
at least equal to the amount of sample sent to NSF for testing.
PP – 19 NSF retain of Certified Products
NSF shall retain all original samples for at least 90 days past the authorization date of the report with which
they are associated to ensure that no additional testing is necessary.
• For a sample where the test result was a “PASSˮ the sample may be disposed of any time after 90 -days
from report authorization. Prior to disposal, a laboratory representative shall photo document the front
label, rear label and lot number.
• For a sample where the test result was a “FAILˮ: All original sample shall be kept for at least one (1) year
past the date of sample receipt or Product expiration date. Disposal of a sample that fails testing is at
the discretion of the Certification Account Manager.
Non-compliance
PP – 20 Enforcement action for noncompliance
If an athletically banned substance is detected at a concentration that exceeds the report threshold, the per
serving threshold (for endogenous substances) and/or the maximum report threshold as described in Annex C ,
the product shall be quarantined. The Company shall submit a corrective action plan to NSF within 30 days of
the reported failure that addresses the current failure and mitigates future failures.
A confirmed failure will result in exclusion of the product from certification to this guideline. NSF may also
withdraw Certification of the product to NSF/ANSI 173. NSF 229, NSF 527, NSF/ANSI 527 and/or the
manufacturing facilityʼs GMP Registration/Certi fication. Other action may be taken by NSF, including but not
limited to, issuing a Public Notice, notification to athletic associations, performance of additional product
testing and requiring the destruction of the affected batch or lot.
A24

--- page 41 ---

The Company expressly consents and agrees that NSF shall be entitled, without any liability to NSF, to notify
and discuss with amateur or professional athletic organizations and anti-doping organizations when a Product
and/or ingredient in a Product tests positive for a substance on the Banned Substance List ( Annex C ).
PP – 21 Noncompliance to NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 527, NSF/ANSI 527or NSF 229
• Products (including bracketed formulas) noncompliant to NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 229, NSF/ANSI 527, NSF
527 shall not be permitted to conduct further certification to this guideline until the failure is resolved.
• Noncompliance to NSF/ANSI 173, NSF 527, NSF/ANSI 527or NSF 229 NSF may result in withdrawal of
Certification or other actions.
PP – 22 Misrepresentation of Certification
Any intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of Certification by the Company may result in immediate
suspension or withdrawal of certification and may impact the Companyʼs ability to apply for Certification to this
guideline in the future, due to the potentially severe negative impact for users of Certified for Sport® Product
should they errantly ingest non-certified for Sport® Product.
If evidence of noncompliance to this or any other policy is identified, NSF will perform an administrative review
and determine if Company will be allowed to proceed with current or future requests for Certification.
Certification may be temporarily suspended during this time.
Company shall cooperate and provide NSF with all necessary information to perform the review. Upon
conclusion of the review, the company shall be provided in writing any nonconformances, impact to
Certification, expectations and next steps. Certification of products may be reinstated upon the completion of
the review.
NSF reserves the right to notify impacted sports organizations of the outcome of the review.
PP – 23 Non-compliance to testing schemes
This policy applies to all clients participating in one or more of the Certified for Sport testing schemes
(excluding lot-by-lot). All testing and policy requirements shall be met in a timely and accurate manner to avoid
potential corrective action from NSF. In the event of a testing failure for products in a scheme (excluding lot-
by- lot), public listings will be updated to remove “Allˮ designation and only reflect compliant lots.
Failure to comply with any of the testing scheme requirements may result in but not limited to the following
actions:
• Public Notice;
• Suspension or Withdrawal from the scheme;
• Disqualification from the scheme requiring full re-qualification;
• One-year suspension from the scheme;
• Permanent withdrawal from the scheme; and/or
• Additional testing or sampling outside of the scheme requirements.
• Company is expected to:
A25

--- page 42 ---

• Review and understand the testing requirements and which products are compliant and in scope of this
program;
• Ensure timely completion of all testing, sampling and documentation activities. Report issues of
uncertainties to NSF immediately; and
• Ensure that all facilities involved understand the requirements and how those requirements impact
compliance.
• Non-Compliance with this policy will be addressed promptly and corrective actions will be taken as
deemed necessary by NSF.
Marking
PP – 24 NSF Certification Marks
Products Certified to this Guideline shall bear the NSF Certified for Sport® Certification Mark ( Annex B ) and
adhere to the requirements of this guideline:
• The Mark shall be legible and permanent;
• If the client uses marks that are not incorporated with the Finished Product label (i.e. stickers), the same
requirements herein apply, and approval shall be obtained from NSF prior to applying Marks on Product;
• Lots Certified to this Guideline shall not also bear NSF ʼ s Contents Tested and Certified Mark;
• NSF Marks can be acquired through the program office or produced by the Client. Marks produced by
the client shall adhere to all NSF requirements;
• Except where exempted by these policies, products labeled for sale or distribution to end users shall
bear the NSF Mark. A Product containing multiple single serving Product packs enclosed inside master
packaging need not be individually marked if the master packaging bears the NSF Mark. The packaging
of all Product samples must bear the NSF Mark including samples pulled from a master package;
• Marks shall not be applied on any removable packaging including but not limited to; product lids and
caps, and;
• Product may be Marked as Certified in advance of Listing provided the Product remains within the
Company ʼ s direct control and is not released to the marketplace until the Certified Product ʼ s Lot number
is listed on the Official Listings page. NSF is not liable to reimburse any of the Company ʼ s costs
associated with the application of the Mark before Certification is granted. The Company understands
that it incurs these costs at its own risk.
All alternate marking methods and implementation for NSF Certified for Sport® Products shall be reviewed and
authorized in writing by NSF prior to use.
PP – 25 Labeling and literature requirements
The product labels shall also comply with the relevant regulatory requirements governing the sale or use of
Functional Ingredient, Functional Food, Beverage, Medical Foods, Dietary Ingredient, Dietary Supplement, or
Personal Care for each specific country that the Product is intended.
Labels shall include the following:
• Company name;
A26

--- page 43 ---

• Production location (city, state, province/country, or other facility identification that is traceable to the
production facility);
• NPN Number where applicable products ( Annex E )
• Trade name or Product designation as shown in NSFʼs Official Listing; and
• Batch or lot designation.
• NSF will review and may grant exceptions to the requirements of this program policy on a case-by-
case basis.
A27

--- page 44 ---

This page is intentionally left blank.

--- page 45 ---

Annex B
NSF Certification Mark options
The Certified Finished Product label shall bear the Certification Mark as detailed in this Annex.
General usage guidelines
In addition to Marking their Certified Products, Companies are encouraged to utilize the Mark in related
literature, on packaging and on Company websites. NSF Mark usage specifies that the NSF Mark is always to
appear near a photo of the Certified Product( s) when all Lots are Certified. Certified companies are also
welcome to include a link on their website to their NSF Listing page, so their customers and associated
regulatory bodies can quickly verify which products are NSF Certified.
Usage guidelines include:
• Colors – the NSF Mark shall appear in approved colors detailed in Table 1. No other colors are
permitted.
• The NSF Mark shall not be cropped or covered.
• When referencing Certified for Sport® or NSF the registered trademark symbol, “®,ˮ shall be used
regardless of where the Product is being sold.
• No part of the Certification Mark shall be transparent (other than the transparent space already created
on the white mark shown in Table 1 below).
• The Mark shall not be modified in any way except for its size. The Markʼs proportions shall remain
consistent with any increase or decrease in size.
• The Mark shall be visibile and legible. For visibility and legibility, it is recommended that the NSF
Certified for Sport® Mark be reproduced no smaller than 1/4 inches (.635 cm) in width for the vertical
mark, and no smaller than 3/16 inches (.1875 cm) in height for the horizontal mark.
• The Mark shall not be placed within another graphic element unless approved by NSF.
For more information about proper usage of the NSF Mark, contact your NSF Account Representative.
B1

--- page 46 ---

Options for Acceptable NSF Certification Marks
Mark Description and use requirements
Finished Product
For use on product only that have
been certified to the dietary
supplement standard NSF/ANSI
173, NSF 527 or to the Functional
Food Guideline NSF 229 AND
®
certified to the Certified for Sport
Guideline NSF 306. Product
certified to NSF 306 shall not also
be marked with the NSF/ANSI 173,
527 or NSF 229 mark.
Raw Ingredient
Products that have been Certified
as a raw ingredient shall only bear
this mark on the Ingredient COA (or
similar document). The use of any
Certified for Sport® mark or
statements on Finished Products or
referenced in any marketing
material about Finished Products is
strictly prohibited.
B2

--- page 47 ---

Annex C
NSF Athletic Banned Substance Screen
(normative)
Prohibited Substances Included in Analytical Test Method
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Drugs of Abuse Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Codeine 10 200
See
delta-8-THC 100 1000 tetrahydrocannabinols
See
delta-10-THC 100 1000 tetrahydrocannabinols
See
delta-9-THC 100 1000
tetrahydrocannabinols
Note 3, 4
Tetrahydrocannabinols 100 μg per day
4-hydroxybutanoic acid (GHB) 20000 20000 5000
JWH-018 5 100
JWH-073 5 100
HU-210 20 400
LSD 10 200
Morphine 100 1000
Oxycodone 10 200
Phencyclidine (PCP) 10 200
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Anabolic Agents Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Androstenediol 20 500 0.5
5a-Androstan-3a,17a-diol 20 500 0.5
5a-Androstan-3a,17b-diol 20 500 0.5
5a-Androstan-3b,17a-diol 20 500 0.5
5a-Androstan-3b,17b-diol 20 500 0.5
Androstanedione 5 100
1-Androstenediol 5 100
1-Androstenedione 5 100
1-Androsterone (Androst-1-ene-3b-
ol-17-one) 5 100
C1

--- page 48 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Anabolic Agents Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
1-Androsterone enanthate 5 100
4-Androsten-3a, 17b-diol 20 500 0.5
4-Androsten-3b, 17a-diol 20 500 0.5
5-Androsten-3, 17-dione 20 500 0.5
5-Androsten-3b, 17a-diol 20 500 0.5
4-Androstenediol 20 500 0.5
4-Androstenedione 20 500 0.5
4-Androsten-3a-ol-17-one 5 100
4-Androsten-3b-ol-17-one (4-DHEA) 5 100
2-Androsten-17-one 5 100
Androsterone 20 500 0.5
Bolandiol (19-Norandrostenediol) 10 100
Bolasterone 5 100
Boldenone 10 100
Boldione (Androstadienedione) 5 100 0.02
Calusterone 5 100
Clostebol 5 100
Danazol 5 100
Dehydroandrosterone 5 100
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) 20 500 0.5
Desoxymethyltestosterone (madol) 10 100
Dihydrotestosterone (Stanolone) 20 500 0.5
2a,17a-Dimethylandrost-1,4-dien-
17b-ol- 3-one 5 100
Drostanolone 5 100
Epiandrosterone 20 500 0.5
Epidihydrotestosterone 20 500 0.5
Estra-4,9-diene-3,17-dione 5 100
Estra-4,9,11-triene-3,17-dione 5 100
Ethylestrenol 10 100
Etiocholanolone 20 500 0.5
Fluoxymesterone 10 100
Formebolone 5 100
Furazabol 5 100
C2

--- page 49 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Anabolic Agents Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Gestrinone 5 100
11a-Hydroxymethyltestosterone 5 100
3b-Hydroxy-estr-4-en-17-one 5 100
4-Hydroxytestosterone 5 100
17-Hydroxyprogesterone 20 500 0.5
7-keto-dehydroepiandrosterone 5 100
7a-hydroxy-dehydroepiandrosterone 5 100
7b-hydroxy-dehydroepiandrosterone 5 100
Mestanolone 5 100
Mesterolone 5 100
Methandienone 2 40
Methandriol 5 100
Methasterone 5 100
Methenolone 5 100
17a-Methyl-1,4-androstadiene-
3b,17b-diol 5 100
17a-Methylclostebol 5 100
Methylclostediol 5 100
Methyldienolone 5 100
Methylnortestosterone 5 100
Methylstenbolone 5 100
Methyltestosterone 2 40
Methyl-1-testosterone 5 100
Methyltrienolone (Metribolone) 5 100
Mibolerone 5 100
Nandrolone 5 100
19-Nor-5-Androstenediol 5 100
19-Norandrostenedione 5 100
19-Norandrosterone 20 500 0.5
19-noretiocholanolone 20 500 0.5
Norbolethone 5 100
Norclostebol 5 100
Norethandrolone 5 100
Oxabolone 5 100
Oxandrolone 5 100
C3

--- page 50 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Anabolic Agents Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Oxymesterone 5 100
Oxymetholone 5 100
Progesterone 100 1000 10
Prostanozol 5 100
Quinbolone 5 100
Stanozolol 2 40
Stenbolone 5 100
1-Testosterone 5 100
Testosterone 20 500 0.5
Tetrahydrogestrinone 5 100
Tibolone 5 100
Trenbolone 5 100
Turinabol-oral 2 40
Turinadiol-a (4-chloro-17a-methyl-
androst-1,4-diene-3a,17b-diol) 5 100
Turinadiol-b (4-chloro-17a-methyl-
androst-1,4-diene-3b,17b-diol) 5 100
alpha-Zearalanol (Zeranol) 5 100
Zilpaterol 5 100
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Diuretics Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Acetazolamide 20 1000
Althiazide 20 1000
Amiloride 20 1000
Bendroflumethiazide 20 1000
Benzthiazide 20 1000
Bumetanide 20 1000
Buthiazide 20 1000
Canrenone 20 1000
Chlorthalidone 40 1000
Chlorthiazide 20 1000
Cyclothiazide 20 1000
Ethacrynic Acid 20 1000
C4

--- page 51 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Diuretics Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Furosemide 20 1000
Hydrochlorothiazide 20 1000
Hydroflumethiazide 20 1000
Indapamide 20 1000
Methiazide 20 1000
Methylclothiazide 20 1000
Metolazone 20 1000
Polythiazide 20 1000
Quinethazone 20 1000
Spironolactone 20 1000
Triamterene 20 1000
Tolvaptan 20 1000
Trichlormethiazide 20 1000
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Beta-2 Agonists Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Bambuterol 20 1000
Brombuterol 20 1000
Clenbuterol 2 100
Fenoterol 20 1000
Formoterol 20 1000
Higenamine 200 1000
Procaterol 20 1000
Ractopamine 20 1000
Ritodrine 20 1000
Salbutamol 20 1000
Salmeterol 20 1000
Terbutaline 20 1000
Vilanterol 20 1000
C5

--- page 52 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Masking agents Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Note 2
Epitestosterone 20 400 0.4
Dutasteride 20 200
Finasteride 20 200
Probenecid 20 200
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Hypoxia-inducible factor activators Threshold threshold (endogenous)
BAY 87-2243 20 200
Daprodustat 20 200
Desidustat 20 200
Enarodustat 20 200
Roxadustat 20 200
FG-2216 20 200
KC7F2 20 200
Vadadustat 20 200
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Hormone Antagonists Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Aminoglutethimide 20 200
Anastrozole 20 200
5a-androstan-17b-ol-3,6-dione 20 200
5a-Androstan-3,6,17-trione 20 200
6-alpha-bromoandrostadiendione 20 200
6-alpha-bromoandrostenedione 20 200
6-alpha-bromotestosterone 20 200
Androsta-1,4,6-triene-17b-ol-3-one 20 200
Androsta-1,4,6-trienedione
(Androsta-1,4,6-triene-3,17-dione) 20 200
4-Androsten-3,6,17-trione 20 200
Androsta-3,5-diene-7,17-dione 20 200
6-beta-bromoandrostadiendione 20 200
6-beta-bromoandrostenedione 20 200
6-beta-bromotestosterone 20 200
Clomiphene 20 200
C6

--- page 53 ---

Cyclofenil 20 200
N-Desmethyltamoxifen 20 200
Exemestane 20 200
Formestane 20 500
Fulvestrant 20 200
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Hormone Antagonists Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Letrozole 40 200
Raloxifene 20 200
Tamoxifen 20 200
Toremifene 20 200
Testolactone 20 200
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Hormone and Metabolic Modulators Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
AICAR 1000 10000 500 μ g per day
GW501516 10 200
GW0742 10 200
Anamorelin 5 100
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
SARM Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Andarine 5 200
C-6 5 200
CAS#541497-95-4 5 200
Ibutamoren 5 200
LGD -2226 5 200
LGD -4033 5 200
Ostarine 5 200
RAD140 5 200
S-1 5 200
C7

--- page 54 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Growth Hormone Releasing Peptides Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Alexamorelin 200 2000
GHRP-1 200 2000
GHRP-2 200 2000
GHRP-4 200 2000
GHRP-5 200 2000
GHRP-6 200 2000
Hexarelin 200 2000
Ipamorelin 200 2000
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Stimulants Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Adrafinil 25 1000
2-Aminoheptane 25 1000
2-Amino-6-methylheptane 25 1000
6-Amino-2-methyl-2-heptanol 25 1000
2-Amino-5-methylhexane 25 1000
Amiphenazole 40 1000
Amphetamine 25 1000
Benfluorex 25 1000
Benzphetamine 25 1000
Benzylpiperazine 25 1000
Bromantan 25 1000
Carphedone 25 1000
Cathine 25 1000
p-Chloroamphetamine 25 1000
Chlorphentermine 25 1000
Clobenzorex 25 1000
Cocaine 25 1000
Cropropamide 25 1000
Crotethamide 25 1000
Deprenyl (Selegiline) 25 1000
N-Desmethylsibutramine 25 1000
N-Desmethylselegiline 25 1000
Deterenol 25 1000
C8

--- page 55 ---

N,N-Didesmethylsibutramine 25 1000
N,a-Diethylphenylethylamine 25 1000
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Stimulants Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
N,b-Diethylphenylethylamine 25 1000
Diethylpropion (Amfepramone) 25 1000
Dimethylamphetamine 25 1000
1,3-Dimethylbutylamine 25 1000
N,N-Dimethylphenylethylamine 600 1000 31
N,N-Dimethyl-2-phenylpropan-1-
amine 25 1000
Ephedrine 10 1000
Ethamivan 25 1000
Ethylamphetamine 25 1000
Etilefrine 25 1000
Famprofazone 25 1000
Fenbutrazate 25 1000
Fencamine 25 1000
Fencamfamine 25 1000
Fenetylline 25 1000
Fenfluramine 25 1000
Fenproporex 25 1000
Furfenorex 25 1000
4-Hydroxyamphetamine 25 1000
Isometheptene 25 1000
Mazindol 25 1000
Meclofenoxate 25 1000
Mefenorex 25 1000
Mephentermine 25 1000
Methamphetamine 25 1000
Mesocarb 25 1000
2-Methoxyphenylethylamine 25 1000
4-Methylamphetamine 25 1000
3,4-MDA (3,4-
Methylenedioxyamphetamine) 25 1000
3,4-MDMA (3,4-
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine) 25 1000
C9

--- page 56 ---

Methylephedrine 10 1000
Methylhexaneamine 25 1000
beta-Methylphenethylamine 25 1000
Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Stimulants Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
N-Methylphenethylamine 500 1000 28
Methylphenidate 25 1000
Methyl-(3-phenylpropyl)-amine 25 1000
N-Methylpseudoephedrine 25 1000
Methylsynephrine (Oxilofrine) 25 1000
Modafinil 25 1000
Nikethamide 25 1000
Norfenefrine 25 1000
Norfenfluramine 25 1000
Octopamine 200 10000 10
Oxethazaine 25 1000
Pemoline 25 1000
Pentylenetetrazole 25 1000
Phenpentermine 25 1000
Phenpromethamine 25 1000
Phentermine 25 1000
Phendimetrazine 25 1000
Phenmetrazine 25 1000
1-Phenyl-2-butanamine 25 1000
1-Phenylpentan-2-amine 25 1000
Phenylpropanolamine 25 1000
Prenylamine 25 1000
Prolintane 25 1000
Propylhexadrine 25 1000
Pseudoephedrine 10 1000
Pyrovalerone 25 1000
Sibutramine 25 1000
Strychnine 25 1000
Trimetazidine 25 1000
C10

--- page 57 ---

Maximum Per serving
Report report threshold
Note 1 Note 2 Note 3
Beta-Blockers Threshold threshold (endogenous)
(ng/g) (ng/g) (μg/serving)
Acebutolol 25 1000
Alprenolol 25 1000
Atenolol 25 1000
Betaxolol 25 1000
Bisoprolol 25 1000
Carteolol 25 1000
Clozapine 25 1000
Esmolol 25 1000
Labetalol 25 1000
Levbunolol 25 1000
Metoprolol 25 1000
Nadolol 25 1000
Oxprenolol 25 1000
Pindolol 25 1000
Propafenone 25 1000
Propranolol 25 1000
Sotalol 25 1000
Timolol 25 1000
Note 1
The report threshold is set at a
concentration above which the prohibited
substance can be confirmed as present for
the majority of supplements or functional
foods.
Note 2
The maximum report threshold is used
in cases when the test method(s) cannot
achieve the report threshold due to product
matrix effects, i.e. substances not detected
in both the test product and the fortified test
product. This represents the highest limit of
detection that will be used for reporting.
Note 3
Except where a daily limit is explicitly
noted (e.g. THC limits). A per serving
threshold has been determined for these
endogenous substances based on World
Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) minimum
required performance levels (MRPL) in
urine, decision limits for threshold
substances in urine and concentrations
found in the food supply. The per serving
threshold is used only when evaluating
ingredients or products that naturally
C11

--- page 58 ---

contain banned substances at trace levels
(e.g., octopamine in citrus, progesterone in
whey protein, and N-
methylphenylethylamine in fermented
products).
Note 4
The per serving threshold for delta-8-
THC, delta-9-THC and delta-10-THC is
evaluated as the sum of
tetrahydrocannabinols (delta-8-THC, delta-
9-THC and delta-10-THC).
C12

--- page 59 ---

Annex D
Health Canada – Canadian policy
(These policies are normative to any Certified Products being sold in Canada)
D.1 Canadian normative references equivalency
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of this
document.
6
Food and Drugs Act (R.S.C. 1985, c. F-27)
7
Natural Health Products Regulations (SOR/2003-196)
Error! Bookmark not defined.
NSF/ANSI 173 Dietary Supplements
Error! Bookmark not defined.
NSF 229 Certification Guideline for Functional Foods
8
Council Directive 90/496/EEC of 24 September 1990 on nutrition labeling for foodstuffs
9
CAC/G12-1985- Nutrition Labeling : A Strategic Framework for Public Education
D.2 Additional GMP requirements for Canadian health product companies
The following constitute additional requirements that NSF shall verify as part of the certification process for
Companies selling Certified for Sport® Program Products in Canada.
D.2.1 Product license
All-natural health products require a product license before they can be sold in Canada. Obtaining a license
requires submitting detailed information on the product to Health Canada, including medicinal ingredients,
source, potency, non-medicinal ingredients and recommended use. Once a product has been assessed and
granted market authorization by Health Canada, the product label will bear an eight (8) digit product license
number preceded by the distinct letters NPN, or, in the case of a homeopathic medicine, by the letters DIN-HM.
This number on the label will inform consumers that the product has been reviewed and approved by Health
Canada for safety and efficacy.
D.2.2 Site license
A system of site licensing requires that all manufacturers, packagers, labelers, and importers be licensed. Sites
must have procedures in place respecting distribution records and product recalls and for the handling, storage
and delivery of their products, and demonstrate that they meet good manufacturing practice requirements.
6
Health Canada, Legislative Services Branch, 284 Wellington Street, SAT -3, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0H8. <http://laws-
lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/F-27/>
7
Health Canada, Legislative Services Branch, 284 Wellington Street, SAT -3, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0H8. <http://laws-
lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/SOR-2003-196/page-1.html>
8
European Union, <http://www.useu.be/agri/label.html>
9
Health Canada, Address Located 0900C2, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0K9 <http://www.hc -sc.gc.ca/fn-an/label-
etiquet/nutrition/educat/strat_framework-cadre_strat-int-eng.php>
D1

--- page 60 ---

This page is intentionally left blank.

--- page 61 ---

Annex E
Special Terms and Conditions for Services Relating to Cannabis Sativa L. Ingredients
(“CSL Ingredientsˮ) or Products Containing CSL Ingredients (“CSL Productsˮ)
a. Client shall ensure that the CSL Ingredients or CSL Products are provided to NSF (i) in adequate quantities,
(ii) in a safe condition and (iii) in compliance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
b. NSF may, at its discretion and at Clientʼs cost, undertake initial testing on the CSL Ingredients or CSL
Products to ensure such CSL Ingredients or CSL Products are safe and appropriate for NSF to provide the
Services, and NSF shall not be liable for any delay in providing the Services as a result of such initial testing.
c. Client represents and warrants that the CSL Ingredients or CSL Products contain CSL Ingredients which
either (i) were derived from those parts of the plant excluded from the federal Controlled Substances Act's
definition of "marihuana" (21 USC 802(16)(B)(ii)) or (ii) qualify as "hemp" and were derived solely from "hemp"
plants pursuant to 21 USC 802(16)(B)(i).
d. Client hereby acknowledges and agrees that Client assumes sole responsibility for ensuring the CSL
Ingredients or CSL Products comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations, including
but not limited to labelling, transportation, and allowable content (including but not limited to allowable delta-9-
tetrahydrocannibinol content, which Client acknowledges may vary according by jurisdiction). Client further
acknowledges and agrees that NSFʼs performance of the Services does not i nclude, indicate, or imply any
statement, conclusion, guarantee, or promise by NSF that the CSL Ingredients or CSL Products are in
compliance with any local, state, or federal law or regulation.
e. Client hereby acknowledges and agrees that NSF will release (i) information required by law to be disclosed
or (ii) information required to be disclosed by any applicable program guidelines governing the Services or (iii)
information requested or required to be disclosed by to any governmental agency, including but not limited to
communication of test reports results to local, state or federal agencies in the event of delta-9-
tetrahydrocannibinol test results exceeding the legal limits established under applicable local, state or federal
law.
E1

--- page 62 ---

This page is intentionally left blank.

--- page 63 ---

Annex Z
Certification agreement
The company shall:
• fulfill certification requirements at all times, including implementation of required changes that are
communicated by NSF, within an agreed upon timeframe
• assure that the certified product continue to fulfill certification requirement for ongoing production
• make arrangements for:
o the conduct of evaluation and surveillance as required by NSF, including but not limited to,
arranging availability of documentation, records, relevant equipment, location(s), area(s)
o personnel and subcontractors (if applicable)
o investigation of complaints
o participating by observers, if applicable.
• assure that:
o all claims made by the company are consistent with the scope of certification
o the product certification is not used in a manner that would bring NSF into disrepute
o no statements are made regarding the certified product that are misleading or unauthorized.
• any certification certificate or report related to certification shall not be used in any misleading manner.
• discontinue use of all advertising that contains any reference to NSF certification and take actions as
required by the NSF requirements, or the contract, if certification has been suspended, withdrawn or
terminated
• upon the request of others, provide copies of the certification documents, in their entirety, or as
specified by the NSF requirements of the contract
• assure that references to its product certification in documents, brochures or advertising comply with
NSF requirements
• comply with any requirements contained in the scheme related to use of the NSF mark, and on
information related to the product (i.e. marketing materials, websites)
• maintain a record of all complaints made known to the client relating to compliance with certification
requirements, and made these records available to NSF upon request
• take appropriate action based on complaints received, and deficiencies found in certified product that
affect compliance with certification requirements
• document actions taken
• inform NSF immediately of changes that may affect the clientʼs ability to conform to certification
requirements as stated in the scheme or the contract
• the company acknowledges that NSF holds various accreditations that require review, audit, and
inspections by accreditation and oversight bodies, including advisory councils and similar boards or
committees (“accreditation/oversight bodiesˮ). The company agrees that such accreditation/oversight
bodies may review, witness, and analyze any services and the associated data, information, and
Z1

--- page 64 ---

Reports for the Services, whether at the premises of the company, NSF, or elsewhere. To the extent
required by such accreditation/oversight bodies with respect to the particular services provided to the
company, the company expressly consents that NSF may disclose to third parties the information about
the company or the companyʼs products or services as directed by such accreditation/oversight
bodies.
Z2

--- page 65 ---


--- page 66 ---

Improving Human and Planet Health
For more information, contact: 789 N. Dixboro Road Ann Arbor, MI 48105 USA
standards@nsf.org nsf.org
